1 can (6 ounce) frozen apple juice concentrate, thawed 
1/4 cup reduced-sodium ketchup 
2 tablespoons packed brown sugar 
1 tablespoon cider vinegar 
1 teaspoon dried thyme 
1/8 teaspoon hot-pepper sauce 
6 boneless, skinless chicken breast halves (4 ounces each)

In a small saucepan, combine the apple juice concentrate, ketchup, brown sugar, vinegar, thyme and hot-pepper sauce. Cook, stirring, over medium heat until the sugar completely dissolves. Remove from the heat and cool to room temperature. Place the chicken in a single layer in a 13-by-9-inch baking pan. Pour about half of the cooled ketchup mixture over the chicken, turning once to coat both sides. Cover and refrigerate both the chicken and the remaining ketchup mixture for 4 to 24 hours. Coat a grill rack with nonstick spray. Then light the grill according the manufacturer's directions. 

Check the temperature for grilling; the temperature should be medium-hot (see the Test Kitchen Tip below). Place the rack on the grill. Remove the chicken from the ketchup mixture; discard whatever ketchup mixture remains in the baking pan. Coat the chicken pieces with nonstick spray and brush them with some of the remaining ketchup mixture. Place the chicken on the rack and grill, uncovered, for 8 minutes. Turn the chicken over and brush with the remaining ketchup mixture. Grill for 7 to 10 minutes, or until the chicken is tender and cooked through. Discard any remaining ketchup mixture. 

When grilling, here's how to test the temperature of the coals: Place your hand 4 inches over the heat source. Count the number of seconds that the palm of your hand can withstand the heat before you have to remove your hand. For a hot temperature, that should be 2 seconds. For a medium-hot temperature, it should be 3 seconds. Medium heat would be 4 seconds, and low would be 5 seconds. 

To broil the chicken instead of grilling it, coat the rack of a broiling pan with nonstick spray. Remove the chicken from the ketchup mixture; discard whatever ketchup mixture remains in the baking pan. Coat the chicken pieces with nonstick spray and brush them with some of the remaining ketchup mixture. Place the chicken on the rack. Broil 4 inches from the heat for 5 minutes. Turn the chicken over and brush again with the remaining ketchup mixture. Broil for 4 to 6 minutes, or until the chicken is tender and cooked through. Discard any remaining ketchup mixture. 

