
    Four Variations on Scallops "Gratinate": Cappe Sante Gratiniate ? I Quattro Variazioni

    Recipe copyright 2001, Mario Batali. All rights reserved

    I.
    1 pound sea scallops
    1 cup all-purpose flour, seasoned with salt and pepper
    4 tablespoons plus 2 tablespoons butter
    3 cloves garlic, finely chopped
    1 cup white wine
    1/2 bunch Italian parsley, finely chopped to yield 1/8 cup

    Preheat the oven to 475 degrees F, or preheat the broiler. 

    Dredge the scallops in the seasoned flour. In a 12 to 14-inch saute pan, heat the 4 tablespoons butter over high heat until it
    foams and subsides. Add the scallops, working in batches if necessary, and cook for 2 minutes on 1 side. Carefully turn and
    cook for 2 minutes on the other side, then remove to a plate until all are cooked. Place the scallops under the broiler or in the
    oven for 3 to 4 minutes, until they are nicely browned at the edges. 

    Meanwhile, add the garlic to the pan in which you cooked the scallops and cook for 2 minutes over medium-high heat. Add
    the wine, scraping the bottom of the pan to dislodge any browned bits, and bring to a boil. Add the remaining butter, a
    half-tablespoon at a time, until it is absorbed. Add the parsley, season with salt and pepper, to taste, and serve the scallops
    with the sauce poured over.

    II.
    4 tablespoons butter
    1/4 cup fine cornmeal
    2 tablespoons chopped tarragon
    Salt and pepper
    1 pound sea scallops

    Preheat the oven to 475 degrees F, or preheat the broiler. 

    In a 12 to 14-inch saute pan, heat the butter over high heat until it foams and subsides. Whisk in the cornmeal, stirring for 2
    minutes. Remove from heat and set aside. Add the tarragon and salt and pepper. Season the scallops with salt and pepper
    and sprinkle the polenta mixture over them. Bake in the oven or under the broiler for 5 to 7 minutes, until cooked through and
    nicely browned at the edges.

    III.
    4 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
    1 pound sea scallops
    Salt and pepper
    1/2 cup basic tomato sauce, recipe follows
    1/2 bunch Italian parsley, finely chopped to yield 1/8 cup
    15 basil leaves, cut into chiffonade
    1/4 cup white wine

    Preheat the oven to 475 degrees F, or preheat the broiler. 

    In a 12 to 14-inch saute pan, heat the olive oil over high heat until just smoking. Season the scallops with salt and pepper
    and saute over high heat 2 minutes, then turn and cook on the other side for 2 minutes. Remove to a plate and add the
    tomato sauce, parsley, basil, and wine to the pan. Bring to a boil, reduce to a simmer, season with salt and pepper, and
    cook for 5 minutes. Place sauce on a broiler plate and place scallops over sauce. Cook in the oven or broiler until they are
    cooked through and nicely browned on the edges. Serve immediately.

    IV.
    4 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
    1 pound sea scallops
    Salt and pepper
    1 cup dry white wine 
    3 cloves garlic, finely chopped
    Pinch hot chile flakes
    4 anchovy fillets, rinsed and drained
    1 tablespoon capers
    1 lemon, cut into wedges

    Preheat the oven to 475 degrees F, or preheat the broiler. 

    In a 12 to 14-inch saute pan, heat the olive oil over high heat until just smoking. Season the scallops with salt and pepper
    and saute over high heat 2 minutes, then turn and cook on the other side for 2 minutes. Remove to a plate and add wine,
    garlic, chile flakes, anchovies, and capers to the pan. Bring the wine to a boil, reduce to a simmer, season with salt and
    pepper and cook for 10 minutes over low heat, until the capers have burst and the anchovies are falling apart. 

    Sprinkle the scallops with the wine mixture and cook in the oven or broiler until they are cooked through and nicely browned
    on the edges. Serve immediately with lemons.

    Basic Tomato Sauce:
    1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
    1 Spanish onion, chopped in 1/4-inch dice
    4 garlic cloves, peeled and thinly sliced
    3 tablespoons chopped fresh thyme leaves, or 1 tablespoon dried
    1/2 medium carrot, finely shredded
    2 (28-ounce) cans peeled whole tomatoes, crushed by hand and juices reserved
    Salt

    In a 3-quart saucepan, heat the olive oil over medium heat. Add the onion and garlic, cook until soft, and light golden brown,
    about 8 to 10 minutes. Add the thyme and carrot and cook 5 minutes more, until the carrot is quite soft. Add the tomatoes
    and juice and bring to a boil, stirring often. Lower the heat and simmer for 30 minutes until as thick as hot cereal. Season
    with salt and serve. This sauce holds 1 week in the refrigerator or up to 6 months in the freezer. 

    Yield: 4 cups

    Yield: 4 servings each
    Prep Time: 20 minutes
    Cook Time: 10 minutes
    Difficulty: Medium
