Chicken potpie has been a recent discovery for my dad.

He ate it for the first time this summer at Les Bourgeois Winery's bistro in Rocheport, Mo., a short, scenic drive from the town where he and my mom live. What he liked in particular was the puff pastry crust -- though the carrots and peas, which were soft and infused with the flavor of the gravy, were delicious, too.

Mom informed me of this over the phone one day and asked for a recipe for a low-salt version of chicken potpie. This is how I found out about my dad's new favorite food.

When my parents came to Seattle to visit recently, I decided I would make chicken potpie for dinner on their last night in town. We had eaten out for most meals because they wanted to try some of the restaurants I'd been talking about for years. But I didn't want them to leave without enjoying a home-cooked dinner.

Besides, I had recently spoken to Tamasin Day-Lewis, the author of "Tarts With Tops On" (Miramax Books, 144 pages, $24.95), and her savory potpie recipes, especially her Chicken Pie, were on my mind.

In the book, Day-Lewis -- sister to actor Daniel -- mentions an occasion when she had to cook for Michel Roux, a famous French chef. Understanding how nerve-racking that can be, I asked her how she handled cooking for such an illustrious guest. She explained that for someone like that, who is surrounded by fancy food, the last thing he expected from her was more fancy food. Accomplished chefs rarely get dinner invites because home cooks are too intimidated. Day-Lewis said that you could boil an egg for someone like Michel Roux and he'd be happy.

"You don't show off. You do something incredibly simple. You give them what you give anyone. If you try to show off, it's going to be fatal."

While my parents aren't famous chefs and hardly have an appetite for chi-chi foods, my initial instinct was to prepare something elaborate, something that would show off what I've learned in recent years. But Day-Lewis' remark about keeping it simple rang in my mind. My own mantra about using straightforward techniques and the most flavorful ingredients muffled the ego talk.

I consulted a potpie story I wrote a couple of years ago and decided that I didn't have the patience to follow all the instructions. Day-Lewis' chicken pie recipe from the book looked appealing enough, but it called for a puff pastry, which would require more time than I had. 

So, I made up a recipe, which would contain only a small amount of onions and be slightly Chinese in flavor profile to accommodate my dad's palate. 

I figured a pie crust would accomplish the task and fell back on a "never fail" -- quick -- recipe I use. As the dough chilled, I diced carrots and potatoes and chopped up a couple stalks of scallions. There were some shiitake mushrooms leftover from dinner the night before at a Chinese restaurant that I diced, too. Some canned corn went into the mix.

In a skillet, I heated some olive oil and sauteed chunks of chicken breast until they were cooked and then scooped them into a bowl. I added a ladleful of chicken broth, which, to be accurate, was actually Chinese chicken soup that was simmering in another pot on the stove, to deglaze the pan, loosening up all the bits stuck to the bottom of the skillet.

I added all the vegetables and another ladleful of broth. The bits of potato released their starch into the broth to thicken it a touch. When the potatoes were cooked through, the chicken was added back in. Finally, the peas joined the mix. I tasted for seasoning, adding some salt and pepper, then poured the filling into a 10-inch pie plate.

My parents watched as I worked. Dad kept telling me not to go to so much trouble. I reassured him that I wasn't going to any more trouble than I normally do. 

My parents haven't visited me since I've lived in Seattle, so to have them in my kitchen and to prepare a meal for them with my own hands made me happier than I could express. 

I rolled out the crust and covered the pie plate. I cut a few slits in the top, brushed it with egg and put the pie in a 425-degree oven. After a half hour, I checked the top crust. It needed a little more time in the oven, so I gave it about 10 or 15 minutes. I served my impromptu chicken pie at the table.

My dad tasted the crust first. He sang its praises. He ate a few bites of vegetables, in particular the carrots and peas. The wedge of crust disappeared before anything else.

"Would you like more crust?" I asked. "I can cut you a piece."

Dad nodded. He ate the second piece of crust and then slowly ate the vegetables, going around the chunks of chicken, which he left behind on the plate. I had to chuckle to myself, because he ate around what he didn't want as if he were a kid.

All that mattered was that he enjoyed what I made.

This recipe approximates what I concocted to satisfy my father's picky palate. It is unlike the typical chicken potpie, which has a thick gravy, is seasoned with thyme and such, thickened with cream or flour, and includes yellow or pearl onions.


HSIAO-CHING'S 

CHICKEN POTPIE


SERVES FOUR TO SIX


2 tablespoons olive oil 
2 pieces boneless, skinless chicken breast, cut into 3/4-inch chunks 
1 cup chicken soup or broth (recipe follows) 
2 stalks scallions, chopped 
1 cup diced carrots 
1 cup diced potatoes 
1/4 cup canned sweet corn 
1/2 cup diced reconstituted dried shiitake mushrooms 
1/2 cup frozen green peas 
1 egg, beaten 
Salt and pepper to taste 
Never-Fail Pie Crust (recipe follows)

Prepare the pie crust recipe and let chill until ready to roll out. You will need only half the portion. You can save the rest for another pie.


Preheat oven to 425 degrees.


In a large skillet over medium-high, heat 2 tablespoons olive oil. Add the chicken and cook until the meat is no longer pink. Remove the meat from the skillet and set aside.


In the same skillet, add about a 1/2 cup of the soup or broth. Swirl the broth around and scrape the bottom of the skillet to loosen the brown bits on the bottom.


Add the scallions, carrots, potatoes, corn and mushrooms. Stir to combine. Turn heat to medium if necessary. Add the remaining broth and let cook until the potatoes are cooked through. Taste and adjust seasoning to your liking.


Add the chicken to the vegetables and stir to combine. Pour this entire combination into a pie plate.


Roll out the pie crust dough. Cover the pie plate. Trim the edges and press the dough against the edge of the pie plate to seal. Cut four slits in the crust to allow steam to escape. Brush the top with the beaten egg.


Bake in oven for 30 to 40 minutes, or until the crust is golden brown and cooked through. Slice and serve, making sure to scoop up the filling with a wedge of crust.


CHICKEN SOUP


MAKES TWO TO THREE QUARTS


1 whole chicken, about 3 pounds 
3 quarts water, plus more as needed 
1/4 cup soy sauce 
8 dried shiitake mushrooms 
3 slices fresh ginger, about 1/8-inch thick and 2 inches long 
Salt to taste

Place the chicken in a small stockpot and add the water, soy sauce, shiitake mushrooms and ginger. Bring to just a boil. Immediately reduce the heat to medium-low.


Let the broth simmer for at least 1 hour and up to 2. As it simmers, skim off the scum and oil. After an hour, taste and add salt if needed.


This soup can be served with rice or used as a broth.

Here's the quick and easy pie crust recipe I used:


NEVER-FAIL PIE CRUST


MAKES FOUR NINE-INCH CRUSTS


3 cups all-purpose flour 
1 1/2 cups vegetable shortening (or a combination of shortening and unsalted butter) 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1 egg 
1 tablespoon cider vinegar 
5 tablespoons cold water

In a bowl, combine flour, shortening and butter, if using, and salt. With a pastry blender or two forks or your hands, cut and toss the ingredients until the fat is evenly distributed. (Break the fat into pea-size pieces.)


In a small bowl or a measuring cup, combine the egg, vinegar and cold water. Beat to combine, then add to dry ingredients. Mix quickly with a fork with a tossing motion until all the dry ingredients are moistened. You can roll this out right away or cover with a damp towel and let it rest in the refrigerator for 20 to 30 minutes. It behaves better when cool.


When ready to roll out, divide the dough into equal parts, depending on the size of the pie pans. Roll out on a floured surface with a floured rolling pin.

Recipe by Shirlee Read

The following recipes come from Tamasin Day-Lewis' new cookbook, "Tarts With Tops On."


CHICKEN PIE


SERVES FOUR


1 organic free-range chicken, about 3 1/4 pounds and some extra carrots, celery, onions, peppercorns and herbs 
2 medium carrots, sliced into thick disks 
2 celery stalks, chopped 
2 fat white wands of leeks, sliced into disks (use tops when poaching chicken) 
2 medium onions, peeled and quartered 
1/4 cup unsalted butter 
1/2 cup all-purpose flour 
2/3 cup whole milk 
2/3 cup chicken stock from poaching the bird, reduced by half by boiling 
2/3 cup heavy cream 
Sprigs of tarragon and flat-leaf parsley, chopped 
Sea salt and black pepper 
Puff pastry dough (recipe follows) 
Beaten egg for glaze

Put the chicken in a tightish-fitting pot with some leek tops, carrot, celery, onion and a few peppercorns, and a bouquet of fresh herbs (such as thyme, parsley, rosemary). Just cover with water, bring to a boil slowly, and skim. Cover the pan and poach the chicken for 45 to 60 minutes, turning it over at half time. Make the pie dough, working it quickly into a ball, then wrap it in plastic wrap and put it in the fridge for a half hour.


Steam the vegetables by throwing them into the steamer in the order in which they cook, carrots first, celery next, then the onion and leek for the last 5 minutes. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees and place a baking sheet on the middle shelf of the oven to heat up.


When the bird has cooled sufficiently to handle, remove all the flesh you can from the bones, peeling off the skin as you go to use with the carcass to make more intensely flavored stock the second time around. Tear the flesh along the grain, almost pulling it into long, bite-size pieces.


Make a roux with the butter and flour, by melting the butter in a skillet over medium heat and stirring in the flour. Add the milk and the chicken stock, both hot, alternately, until you have a satin-thick sauce. Stirring as you go, cook the sauce long enough to get rid of the flouriness, then stir in the cream. Remove from the heat, season and add the chopped fresh herbs, a couple of tablespoons of each. Stir in the chicken and vegetables and let cool.


Line your buttered pastry pan or pie dish with 2/3 of the rolled-out dough, then scrape in the filling and spread it evenly over the bottom of the dough. Cover the remaining third of the dough, and crimp the edges together with the tines of a fork dipped in cold water. Brush the top of the pie with beaten egg. Cut a cross in the middle of the pie right through the pastry to allow the steam to escape as the pie cooks.


Bake for about an hour, then check. If the pastry is beautifully bronzed, cover the top with a sheet of wax paper and cook for about 15 minutes, or until your nose tells you it is ready. Pastry does smell ready when it is. Don't cut into the pie for at least 10 minutes after taking it out of the oven.

From "Tarts With Tops On"


PUFF PASTRY DOUGH


MAKES ONE PORTION


3 cups all-purpose flour 
A pinch of salt 
3/4 cup butter 
2/3 cup cold water

Sift the flour and salt into a mixing bowl. Rub in 3 tablespoons of butter or use a food processor. Mix in the water and gently knead the dough on a floured surface, preferably marble. If the dough is a little dry, add more water a tablespoon at a time. Wrap it in plastic wrap and refrigerate for 30 minutes.


Keep the rest of the butter out so it softens, then flatten it into a rectangle 1 inch thick. On a lightly floured surface, roll out the dough into a rectangle three times the length and 1 inch wider than the rectangle of butter. Place the butter in the center of the pastry and then fold over the top and bottom of the dough to cover the butter.


With the rolling pin, press down on the edges to seal in the butter, then give the dough a quarter turn clockwise. Now roll the dough out so it returns to its original length. Fold over the ends again, press them together with the rolling pin, and give a further quarter-turn clockwise. Repeat the process once more, then rest the dough in the fridge for at least 30 minutes, remembering which way it is facing.


Repeat the rolling and turning process twice more, then refrigerate for a final 30 minutes before using or freezing. If the dough gets warm and buttery at any stage during the process, put it in the fridge to chill.

From "Tarts With Tops On"

