What follows are the menu items most often served at our traditional Christmas Goose Dinner.  This whole process is far more complicated than any sane chef need do for the same results.  Then again there is tradition and joy in the process.  We serve the goose with the gravy and its stuffing and the Greek spinach and yam recipes included here.  We start with the two pates and end with traditional Christmas plum pudding cooked with a six 1 pence piece inside. The lucky finder of the six pence gets a special gift!

Ingredients:

Duck Pate:
4 to 5 lb duck
1 lb of ground pork
1/2 cup of diced onions
1/4 cup of brandy
10 to 15 pistachios shelled and peeled
2 large eggs lightly beaten
1 large glove of garlic pureed
1 tsp allspice
2 bay leaves
2 tsp kosher salt
1/2 tsp pepper and thyme
1/4 tsp all spice
Brandy Aspic
Cilantro leaves to simulate holly leaves as garnish
and thin strips of tomato to simulate bows.

Goose Liver Pate (Foie Gras):
1/4 cup of chopped onion
goose liver weighed and matched with an equal amount of goose fat
1/2 tsp thyme
Salt and pepper to taste
1 tbs of brandy
3 tbs of sweet butter

Brine:
1 cup of sugar
1 1/2 - 1 3/4 cups of kosher salt
2 1/2 gallons of water
2 bay leaves torn into pieces
1 bunch of fresh thyme
1 head of garlic separated and peeled
5 whole all spice berries crushed
5 whole coriander seeds
4 juniper berries smashed

Goose:
8 to 12 lb goose (frozen works fine but for real splendor pay for a fresh free range $$$!!!)
1/4 cup of Hoisin sauce
1/4 cup of Kikkoman Soy 
1/4 cup of Madeira or Sherry
1 tsp of five spice powder (anise)
1 carrot roughly chopped
1 celery stock roughly chopped
1 cup of chopped onions
2 cups of dry red wine
1 cup of goose stock
Have goose stock handy for braising and basting

Gravy
1/4 cup of separated pan fat
1 cup separated pan juices
1/4 cup of potato starch or flour
16 ounces of goose stock
Salt and pepper

Stuffing:
8 cups of buttermilk bread croutons
8 cups of buttermilk sage cornmeal croutons
5 Granny Smith or green apples
1 lb (4 or 5 links) of mild Italian sausage
10(about 1 cup) shelled and peeled chestnuts chopped
2 tbs of brandy
1/4 tsp cinnamon
1/4 tsp sage
1/4 tsp salt
1/2 cup of port
1/2 cup of goose stock
1 1/2 cups of melted unsweetened butter
1 cup of chestnuts shelled, peeled and chopped
1 1/4 cups onion chopped
1 1/4 cups celery chopped
4 tbs of chopped parsley
Thyme
Salt and pepper

Goose/veal stock:
4 lbs of veal bones cut in 2 or 3 inch pieces
3 celery stalks roughly chopped
3 leeks cleaned and roughly chopped, 
1 onion roughly chopped
1 carrot roughly chopped
1 bay leaf
Duck carcass, bones and parts (excluding liver)
Goose bones and parts (excluding liver)

Buttermilk Bread:
4 cups of unbleached bread flour
1 to 1 1/2 cups of buttermilk
1 tbs salt
1 tbs sugar
3 tbs melted butter
2 packages of dry yeast
1/2 cup of warm (110 degree)water

Buttermilk and sage cornbread:
1 cup of white bread flour
3/4 cup of yellow cornmeal
1 1/2 tbs sage
1 cup of buttermilk
2 eggs lightly beaten
1/4 cup sweet butter melted and cooled
1 1/2 tsp of baking powder
1/2 tsp baking soda
1/2 tsp salt

Sharon and Eric's Yams Braised with Cream, Rosemary and Nutmeg:
4 tsp olive oil
« cup finely chopped shallots
2 « tsp minced fresh rosemary
3 lbs yams, peeled and sliced into « inch thick rounds-cut rounds in half
1 ¬ c homemade chicken broth
« c heavy cream
1 tsp of freshly ground nutmeg

Paul's Greek Spinach Pie:
1/2 cup of sliced green onions with tops
1/2 tsp of dried dill weed
1 tbs of cooking oil
1 10 oz package of frozen chopped spinach thawed
1/4 cup of sweet butter melted
1/4 cup of all purpose flour
1/2 tsp of salt
1 1/2 cups of milk
2 beaten eggs
1 cup cream style cottage cheese
1/2 cup of crumbled feta cheese
1/2 tsp baking powder
2 16X16 sheets of filo dough
2 tbs sweet butter melted

Dolores's Green Herb Salad with Champagne Vinaigrette:
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1 tbs minced shallot
2 tbs Champagne vinegar
Salt and ground pepper
1 large head of butter lettuce torn in bit-size pieces
1 cup of flat-leaf Italian parsley leaves
1/2 cup of fresh cilantro leaves
1/2 cup fresh chervil sprigs
1/2 cup Stilton or blue cheese coarse mashed with fork
1/2 cup of chopped filberts or walnuts


Mariel's Steamed Christmas Plum Pudding with Six Pence:
3 large very ripe Hachiya persimmons
3 tbs baking soda
4 tbs unsalted butter at room temperature
1 1/2 cups packed brown sugar
3 large eggs
1/4 cup of Cointreau or other orange based liquor or Meyer's dark rum
2 tbs fresh lemon juice
1/ 1/2 cups unbleached white flour
1/2 tsp salt
1 tsp ground nutmeg
1 tsp ground cinnamon
Grated zest of 1 lemon
Grated zest of 1 orange
1 tsp of minced fresh ginger
1 1/2 cups of grated fresh cranberries
1 cup of black walnuts chopped
1 cup of raisins
Candied or fresh cranberries, orange slices and finely julienned orange zest for garnish
One six pence!!

Hard Sauce:
1 1/8 cups unsalted butter, softened
2 cups sifted confectioners' sugar
2 tablespoons orange zest
2 tablespoons orange juice
4 tablespoons brandy

Grandmother Edna Bartlett's Christmas Cookies

Dough:

Mix:
4 cups of flour
1 tsp baker powder
1 cup lard
1/2 tsp salt
Mix and add:
1 cup sugar
1 tsp baking soda
Mix and add:
2 beaten eggs
1/3 cup milk
1 1/2 tsp vanilla

Filling:

2 cups seedless raisins and dates chopped
1 1/2 cups water
3/4 cup sugar
2 tbs flour
1 tsp vanilla
1 tsp vinegar

Directions:

For this feast I usually make veal stock first and then prepare the duck pate at least two weeks in advance.  The reason for this is to have the stock ready to make aspic for the pate and to let the duck pate absorb and settle its ingredients.  Finally, doing the veal stock and duck pate early allows one to have duck parts and carcass to add to the veal stock both for the aspic for the pate and the remainder eventually as part of the ingredients for the goose stock for the goose gravy.

Veal Stock:

Add the fresh bones to a large stock pot and bake in the oven at 350 degrees for one hour.  Add about a gallon of water and the vegetables.  Add the duck carcass and parts and the goose parts and bones if available.  If not, make the veal stock first and cook with the duck and goose parts later by simmering the stock with these parts for about an hour or so.  Simmer this pot about three to four hours, staining off any scum that rises to the top. Strain the stock well into a bowl using a good strainer and refrigerate. When cool scrape of the fat that has formed at the top and it is ready to use.

Duck Pate:

Remove the duck parts and excess fat from the duck.  Remove the wish bone from the back of the duck and cut the duck down the back all the way along the back bone until it opens up and can be deboned from the inside out.  Debone the duck starting with freeing the wing joints and slowly scrapping the meat from the carcass from the back to the front until the carcass can be removed entirely.  Complete this process by cutting of the nubs of both legs and cutting the wings off at the first joint and scrapping each part down until the skin can be completely removed. Then slowly pull and cut the skin from the breast meat and remove each breast from the skin being careful not to tear the skin.  Remove as much of the leg meat as can be cut or scrapped off.  Save all the scraped meat.  Cut the breast meat into long strips and store the strips along with the liver in a mixture of the brandy and allspice overnight. Saute the onions in about a tablespoon of unsalted butter for about 10 minutes. When ready to assemble the pate, grind the duck meat in a food processor with the sauteed onions and mix with the ground pork, allspice, salt and pepper in a bowl with the eggs.  Mix well, add the juices from the breast meat and live and set aside.  In a well oiled bread pan or mold put the duck skin in much like you would a pie crust so that the skin can be filled with the pate mixture and then closed and cooked.  With the skin in the pan, add 1/3rd of the duck and ground pork meat mixture layering on top of this the breast strips and a liver cut in strips putting rows of pistachios in between. Add one more layer like this and top off with the final 1/3rd of the meat mixture.  Put two bay leaves on top and close the skin completely around the top.  Cover and chill over night.  Put the pan or mold in a larger pan of water and cook in the oven at 350 degrees for about two hours or until 160 degrees temperature reading.  Remove and let cool.  When cool run off the excess fat and put about five pounds of weight on top of a flat cookie sheet on the top of the cooked pate to flatten the top before removing from its original pan. If it is not flat you can cut off the top flat to the pan with a good carving knife.  Put in the refrigerator and store until you are ready to unmold and cover the pate with aspic.  In order to unmold put the cold pate in the oven at 200 degrees for about ten minutes and then unmold on an appropriate plate.  Note that there will still be some excess fat to remove.  Now you may optionally prepare aspic.  Prepare the aspic using a cup and half of the veal/duck/goose stock, clarified using the egg white method (See Julia Child's "My Way to Cook" cookbook) down to about one cup.  I put three flat cilantro leaves on the top of the pate with thin strips of tomato to simulate ribbons on top.  Put the clarified stock in a small copper pot set over medium heat and add one packet of plain gelatin until it is dissolved.  Then place the copper pot over ice until it begins to gel and spoon the aspic unto the duck pate covering the leaf and red pepper decorations on top and then the side.  The duck pate is now ready.

Sharon and Eric's Yams Braised with Cream, Rosemary and Nutmeg:

Saut‚ the shallots and rosemary in olive oil until they are tender, about three minutes. Add yams and broth (I use home made) and bring to a boil.  Cover and simmer till yams are ALMOST tender. If you cook toooo much, they get mushy.  Add cream and sprinkle with nutmeg (I like to grate my own).  Simmer about five minutes more, or until yams are very tender and the sauce thickens a bit and coats the yams.  Season with salt and pepper. 

Paul's Greek Spinach Pie:

In a skillet cook green onions and dill in hot oil till the onions are tender. About 3 minutes.  Squeeze excess water from spinach and add to the skillet.  Cook until cooked through.  Set aside and keep warm.
In large saucepan melt the 1/4 cup of butter, blend in flour and salt to form roux and stir in milk all at once.  Cook and stir until thick and bubbly.  Cook 1 minute more.  Stir in half of this hot sauce mixture into the eggs and and then return this mixture to the saucepan. Stir in the the cheeses, spinach mixture and baking powder.  Set aside.
Brush half of one sheet of filo dough with some of the melted butter and fold in half.  Butter this half and fold again forming an eight inch square. Place in in 8 X 8 inch baking pan.  Pour in spinach mixture.  Repeat filo dough process again and place atop the spinach mixture tucking in the edges. Bake uncovered in 325 degree oven till mixture is set and top is browned about 35 to 40 minutes.

Buttermilk Bread:

Mix the flour and salt in a mixer with a bread hook.  Proof the yeast with the sugar and a half cup of 110 degree water. Have cool melted butter, yeast water and buttermilk ready to add to the flour mixture.  Turn mixer with flour to low and slowly add the yeast mixture, then the butter and finally the buttermilk.  It will take about a cup plus of butter milk.  Add a cup first and slowly add more until you feel the flour is absorbed and will start to pull away from the bowl.  Roll out unto a floured surface and knead the dough until a slight indent with the finger bounces back.  Put back into a buttered bowl pushing down to mark the starting point and let rise in a warm area to twice the size.  About one hour.  Roll out dough and flatten to remove air bubbles and make two loaves in regular bread pans.  Score the tops to prevent tearing and place in 375 degree oven for about 35 to 45 minutes or until a tap on the bottom of each loaf has that nice hollow sound. 

Buttermilk Sage Cornbread:

Mix all ingredients in a bowl and pour into a 9 inch square bread pan or a 13 inch rectangular baking pan.  Cook for about 15 minutes at 350 degrees or until golden brown.

Bill's Stuffing:

I stuff the goose with a combination of a dry buttermilk bread and cornbread stuffing and Julia Child's recipe for apple and sausage stuffing found in her original French cooking book.  Cut enough buttermilk bread into 1/2 inch squares to make eight cups and enough buttermilk sage cornbread cut into 1/2 inch squares to make four cups.  Place squares in a 250 degree oven for 45 minutes to create hard croutons with soft insides.  Chop one and 1/4 cups of onions and one 1/4 cups of celery and one cup of chestnuts.  Cook the onions until soft and translucent in one and 1/2 cups of unsweetened butter (about 10 minutes).  Add the celery and cook another ten minutes.  Add salt and pepper and thyme to taste.  Mix with the croutons.  Add one cup of chicken stock or goose stock.  Peel and core apples cutting into one inch inch slices. Mix with the juice of one or two lemons to keep them from browning.  Remove the sausage meat from their casings and lightly brown in frying pan trying to make it as grainy as possible.  Remove the sausage mixture with a slotted spoon into a bowl. Boil down a 1/2 cup of port with 1/2 cup of goose stock to about 2 tbs and pour over the cooked sausage. Add a cup of chopped chestnuts to the sausage port mixture and mix well.  Mix mixture with a fork to break up the sausage evenly.  Cook the apples in the sausage grease for about 10 minutes until the apples become slightly brown and soft.  Remove the apples to a bowl and sprinkle with a mixture of the 2 tbs of brandy and 1/4 tsp of cinnamon and 1/4 tsp of sage and a pinch of salt.  Mix the apples with the sausage mixture and then mix this with the bread stuffing for the completed product.  When the stuffing is removed from the goose, add it back to the stuffing set aside and mix with a cup of chicken stock and one egg blended in.   Put into a 400 Degree oven formaboitm15 minutes to crisp the top and bring to a temperature of 160 degrees.

Goose:

The goose must first be thawed if not fresh or thawed in advance by the butcher.  Thawing at home can take 3 or more days in the fridge.

Brining:

Remove the neck and parts from the goose.  Take out the wish bone with a good boning knife by cutting down through and down each side then pulling the wish bone out from the top.  Reserve for stock.  Wash the goose thoroughly with cold water.   Mix the brine ingredients in one gallon or less of water and bring to a boil in a pot on the stove to mix all the ingredients.  Let cool.  Put goose in double plastic bag and then in cooler.  Add the cold brine mixture and more water until the goose is completely covered.  Tie the bags tightly and cover top with ice. Close cooler and brine goose outside overnight.  Remove from the brine, remove any herb residue, wash again with cold water and pat very dry. 

(Optional brine method see Thanksgiving 2012 for salting versus brining)

I think the Julia Child "My Way of Cooking" method of cooking duck and geese combined with a few extras like air-drying the skin, and marinating with Chinese hoisin, soy, five spice powder and sherry or brandy or Madeira to be the most consistent and simplest way to cook the goose.  I have added the additional steps to Julia's method of brining the goose and then air-drying the goose in the fridge before the steaming and before the braise.  I also do not cut the wing joints and leg joints loose nor do I use any twine to bind the wings and legs.   I do however tie the legs together loosely with twine after inserting the stuffing into the cheesecloth.

I prepare the goose for the next steps by extending the neck flap over the back and bringing the wings "akimbo" over the flap to hold it in place.  You can then cut away any excess flap once secured in this manner.  

Drying skin:

Place the goose on a rack in a low-sided roasting pan or platter allowing maximum exposure of the goose to the cold air.  Rub goose all over with Madiera or brandy and place in the refrigerator uncovered.  The next morning cover the outside of the goose with the mixture of hoisin, soy, Madeira and five spice powder. Leave goose in the fridge until ready to steam, braise and roast. This can be later the same day or the next day depending on your timing.

When ready to steam and braise, prick the goose well all over, especially on the breast and upper legs, holding the skewer almost parallel with the bird so as to avoid piercing the flesh but to provide holes in the skin for the fat to drain out.  This is essential to both removing fat and produce dryer skin in the final roasting.

Wipe the cavity of the goose with the juice of a cut lemon and add salt and pepper to the inside of the cavity.  Next combine two tbs of salt and baking powder and rub all over the goose.  Finally, rub the goose again with the marinade mixture before steaming.

Steaming:

Use a roasting pan large enough to hold the goose and be tightly covered with its own cover or tin foil.

Fill the bottom of this pan with and inch or two of water and steam the goose on the range top burners at medium to medium low temperature for 45 to 60 minutes depending on the weight of the goose between 9 and 12 lbs to remove some of the fat.  When the steaming is done, the goose is removed and the fat is poured out. Let the goose rest about 20 minutes. The temperature of the goose at this point should be between 105 and 110 under the legs.   Some people like to chill this water to separate the fat and save it to go with the rest of the rendered goose fat for other cooking uses.  

Stuffing:

If you are stuffing the goose now is the time to do this.  Fill the cavity with a double layer of cheesecloth and add as many cups of stuffing as you can.  For a 12 lb bird this would be about three cups maybe four.

Braising:

Pre-heat the oven to 325 degrees F.

Use same roasting pan as for the steaming. Add the braising vegetables (roughly chopped celery, carrots and onions) to the bottom of the pan and add about two cups of dry red wine and 1 cup of goose stock for the braise.  Then cover the rack with a double layer of tin foil and place the goose breast side down on the rack.  Cover tightly and put the pan in the oven to braise for about one hour to an hour and a half depending on the weight of the goose from 9 to 12 lbs.  Braising is done when the temperature under the legs has reached about 130 degrees F. After the braising, place the goose in another pan. Strain the braising liquid and vegetables through a strainer into a separator pressing the vegetables to extract the last of these juices.  Separate the fat and braising liquids and set aside to make the gravy.  Also at this point the stuffing is removed and added to the remainder of the stuffing in an oven-proof dish and cooked to 165 degrees before serving.  Before returning the goose to the oven for the final roasting you can baste the goose with some goose stock or some Madiera.  The goose can now be returned to the oven still set at 325 degrees and roast with the cover off until the goose is golden brown and the skin somewhat crispy, about another 30 minutes or when the temperature of the breast meat reaches about 160 degrees. Remove the goose to an nice serving dish or board, add garnish and make sure you take a photo of your hard work and accomplishment! Deglaze the pan with gravy stock and add to the pan juices set aside earlier for the gravy. Let it sit uncovered for at least 1/2 hour before carving and serving.

Gravy:

I find the best way to make the gravy is to prepare the goose stock ahead of time and make sure it is reasonably concentrated and gelatinous.  It is then possible to make the gravy after the braising is done.   Warm 2 cups of goose stock on the stove.  Melt the separated goose fat (should have about 1/4 cup but if not add either unsweetened butter or rendered goose fat to make a 1/4 cup) in a medium size pan on the stove and let the melted fat cook but not brown.  Add 1/4 cup of flour or potato starch and cook the roux until it reaches a color of peanut butter and then slowly add the warmed goose stock and stir until it thickens. Add the separated pan juices including the deglazed juices from the final roasting of the goose being careful not to add too much if the goose has been brined or is otherwise very salty.

Dolores's Green Herb Salad with Champagne Vinaigrette:

In the bottom of a salad bowl, combine the olive oil and the shallot. Add the vinegar, a 1/4 tsp of salt and a 1/4 tsp of pepper and mix well with a fork. Top with the lettuce, parsley, cilantro and chervil.  When ready to serve, toss well and spoon onto separate refrigerated plates. Top each salad with spoonfuls of stilton and filberts or walnuts. 

Bill's Goose Pate:

Render the goose fat cut into one inch pieces in a small frying over medium heat until the rinds are hard and crispy and fully separated from the melted goose fat.  Add thyme, salt and pepper and onions and cook onions until translucent, about 10 minutes.  Add liver cut into one inch pieces for about a minute.  Let cool.  Puree this goose fat/rind/onion/liver mixture in a food processor adding sweet butter and brandy as it mixes.  Spoon out mixture into serving dish and let cool and solidify in the refrigerator for an hour before serving.  Serve with thin slices from a baguette of Italian bread brushed with butter and toasted in the oven.

Mariel's Christmas Plum Pudding with Six Pence

Hard Sauce:

Place butter, confectioners sugar, orange rind, orange juice, and brandy or cognac into food processor and mix until smooth. Pile sauce into serving bowl and refrigerate. Remove from fridge about one hour before serving.

Christmas Pudding:
Place a rack in the bottom of the steamer or a large stockpot (if you don't have a rack, use an empty tuna can with the top cut off and holes punched in the bottom).Place a 12 cup pudding mold or deep ceramic bowl on the rack and add water to the stockpot up to but not touching the bottom of the mold or bowl. Remove the mold or bowl, butter it well and set it aside.

Peel the persimmons and scoop out the pulp with a spoon.  Puree the the pulp in a blender.  You should have 1 1/2 cups pf puree.  Stir in the baking soda and set aside. The mixture will thicken.

In a large bowl, cream together the butter and sugar and until fluffy.  Beat in the eggs, Cointreau or rum and lemon juice., then mix in the puree. In an another bowl, stir together the flour, salt and spices. Stir the dry ingredients gradually into the persimmon mixture, Blending thoroughly.  Stir in the zest, ginger, cranberries, nuts and raisins.

Bring the water in the steamer or stockpot to a simmer. Pour the batter into the mold or bowl and even the top with a rubber spatula.  The mold or bowl should be about two thirds full.  Cover tightly with the lid of the mold or aluminum foil tied securely with a string. Place the pudding on the rack in the steamer or stockpot, cover and stream for 2 1/2 hours or until the top of the uncovered pudding springs back like kneaded dough.  Check the pan after one hour and add more water as necessary.

Remove the pudding from the steamer or stockpot and let cool in the mold or bowl for 15 minutes.  Unmold unto a warm plate. 

Very discriminatingly with your eyes closed place the six pence into the pudding.

Make the hard sauce by creaming the butter and sugar until fluffy.  Then slowly beat in the zest, juice and brandy until smooth.  refrigerate and until ready to top off the pudding and use for serving.  

Garnish the edge of the plate with cranberries and orange slices. Spoon a quarter cup of slightly melted hard sauce on top and let drip down the sides.  Sprinkle the julienned zest over the topping and serve pudding warm with the hard sauce on the side or if making ahead, let cool, then cover with aluminum foil and refrigerate.  Reheat the foil-wrapped pudding a preheated 350 degree oven for about 30 minutes, then top off with the melted hard sauce and garnish top.

Grandmother Edna Bartlett's Christmas Cookies

Mix ingredients for filling in a 2 quart sauce pan and cook over medium heat until all ingredients have blended together and thickened.

Allow mixture in small to cool.

Mix flour, lard, baking powder and salt until smooth.  Mix sugar and baking soda and blend into flour-lard mixture until creamy and smooth.  Finally mix the beaten eggs, milk and vanilla and add to creamed mixture until dough is formed.

Divide dough into 2 or 3 portions and roll into logs on waxed paper.
Freeze until firm.
Slice.
Place slices on cookie sheet 2 inches apart.
Spread one teaspoon of filling on each slice.
Cover with another slice of dough.
Bake 10-12 minutes at 375ø. 

Merry Christmas!



