3 Steak Marinades From "The Steaklovers' Companion" by Frederick J. Simon, published by Harper Collins

PACIFIC RIM MARINADE - for 2 boneless strip sirloin steaks, about 10 ounces each

2 teaspoons sesame oil 
1 teaspoon soy sauce 
2 garlic cloves, minced 
1 teaspoon freshly cracked black pepper 
1 teaspoon Chinese plum sauce 
1 small serrano chile, seeded and minced, or 1/4 teaspoon cayenne chile powder 
Thoroughly combine all the marinade ingredients in a large dish. Turn the steaks in the marinade and cover the dish with plastic wrap. Marinate at room temperature for at least 1 hour, turning them once. Or, alternatively, refrigerate overnight (bring to room temperature before cooking). 

JAPANESE TERIYAKI MARINADE - for 4 filet mignon steaks, about 6 ounces each 

1 Tablespoon finely minced ginger 
2 garlic cloves, finely minced 
1 scallion, finely sliced 
1 Tablespoon light brown sugar 
1/2 teaspoon crushed red pepper 
1/2 cup soy sauce 
2 Tablespoons sake or dry sherry 
Follow instructions as above. 

KOREAN BARBEQUE MARINADE - for 1 and 1/2 pounds top sirloin, cut into 1/2 inch slices about 3 inches long

2 Tablespoons sesame seeds 
1/4 cup tamari or soy sauce 
2 Tablespoons light brown sugar 
1 Tablespoon unseasoned rice vinegar 
2 Tablespoons dark sesame oil 
3 scallions, finely sliced 
4 cloves garlic, minced 
1/2 teaspoon minced ginger 
1 Tablespoon hot chile paste, such as sambal sekera or Lingham's sauce 
To prepare the marinade, place the sesame seeds in a dry skillet and toast over medium-high heat, tossing continuously, for about 45 seconds to 1 minute, until golden brown and shiny. Place 1 tablespoon in a mixing bowl and reserve the rest for topping the steak when done cooking. Add the remaining marinade ingredients to the bowl, stirring until thoroughly combined. Add the sirloin slices and let marinade at room temperature for 2 to 3 hours or in the refrigerator overnight (bring to room temperature before cooking.) Soak 20 to 24 wooden skewers in water to prevent them from burning on the grill. Thread each slice onto a separate skewer, pulling them down so they lie flat. Rub the grill with a little sesame oil before cooking to ensure that the meat does not stick to the grill rack. Grill for 1 to 2 minutes per side so they are cooked on the outside but still rare or medium-rare inside. Serve with rice. If desired, may be served with a garnish of Korean kim chee, 1 cup bean sprouts, 2 serrano chiles, seeded and minced and 2 tablespoons pickled ginger. Place a little of everything inside a large lettuce leaf and roll it up, eating with hands.
