When dining in a Japanese restaurant, Martha usually begins her meal with a steaming bowl of nutritious miso soup, which is made from a thick fermented bean paste that comes in a wide variety of flavors, colors, textures, and aromas. When she discovered that her local health-food store stocked so many varieties of miso pastes, she developed this easy-to-prepare home recipe for a fragrant soup with a rich, earthy flavor. 

First, she prepares dashi, the basic Japanese soup stock of kombu, dried sea kelp, and bonito flakes, which are made of smoke-dried katsuo-bushi tuna. After adding miso paste, she garnishes the flavorful broth with finely sliced scallions and enoki mushrooms?delicate clusters of these long-stemmed mushrooms grow along the stumps of Chinese hackberry trees. They impart a mild flavor and crunchy texture to any Japanese dish. 

Whether in soup, marinades, salad dressings, or spread on grilled vegetables, miso is consumed each day by nearly everyone in Japan. The three basic kinds of miso?barley, rice, and soybean?are produced by crushing boiled soybeans into a paste, which is then infused with a mold cultivated from barley, rice, or soybean; these molds give the base paste its distinctive flavors. The mixture then ferments and matures for six months to three years in plastic or stainless steel holding tanks. Use lighter-colored varieties in delicate soups and dressings, and the darker ones in more robust dishes. If refrigerated in an airtight container, miso can be stored and used for up to one year.   
 
MISO SOUP WITH ENOKI MUSHROOMS
Serves 4 
 
  1 four-inch square dried kombu, cleaned with a damp cloth
2/3 cup bonito flakes (fish flakes)
1/3 pound (1 package) enoki mushrooms, reserve a few for garnish
2 tablespoons miso
2 scallions, finely sliced  
 
 1. To prepare the dashi, combine the kombu and 4 cups water in a pot, and bring to a boil. Remove the kelp, and discard. Add the bonito flakes, stir well, and remove from the heat. Let the flakes settle to the bottom of the pot (about 30 seconds). Strain the stock through a fine sieve, discarding the bonito flakes. 

2. Return the stock to the pot, and add the mushrooms. Cook over moderate heat until the mushrooms have softened (about 3 minutes). In a small bowl, dissolve miso in a ladleful of dashi. Add dissolved miso to the soup, and stir to combine. Divide the soup among four bowls, and sprinkle with the reserved enoki and the scallions.  
 
