Carolina Pork Barbecue With Spicy Vinegar Sauce 
Tuesday, August 31, 2004
Makes 6 to 8 servings 

For this recipe, you need 1 small bag of hickory wood chips and a 10-pound bag of charcoal briquettes. 


1 6- to 7-pound boneless pork shoulder (butt or picnic cut), securely tied with butchers' string 
Sauce: 
1 quart cider vinegar (4 cups) 
1/4 cup Worcestershire sauce 
1 cup ketchup 
2 tablespoons prepared mustard 
3 tablespoons firmly packed light brown sugar 
2 tablespoons salt 
Freshly ground black pepper 
1 tablespoon crushed red pepper flakes 

Buns (optional) 
Coleslaw (optional) 

Soak 6 handfuls of hickory wood chips in water for at least 30 minutes, the longer the better. 

Open one bottom and one top vent on a kettle grill. Place a small drip pan in the bottom of the grill, stack charcoal briquettes evenly around the pan and ignite. When coals are gray on one side (after about 30 minutes), turn and sprinkle 2 handfuls of soaked hickory chips evenly over the coals. 

Place the shoulder, skin side down, in the center of the grill about 6 inches directly over the drip pan, lower the lid and cook slowly for 2 hours. Replenish the chips and briquettes as they burn up, but never allow the coals to get too hot. Turn the pork, lower the lid and cook for 2 more hours. To make the sauce: Meanwhile, combine vinegar, Worcestershire, ketchup, mustard, brown sugar, salt, pepper to taste and pepper flakes in a large, nonreactive saucepan. Stir well, bring to a simmer and cook for 5 minutes. Remove from heat and let stand for 2 hours. 

Transfer pork to work surface, make deep gashes in the meat with a sharp knife and baste liberally with the sauce. Replace pork, skin side down, on the grill, replenish fire as needed and cook for 2 more hours, basting with sauce from time to time. 

After it has cooked for a total of about 6 hours, transfer pork to a chopping board and remove the string and most (but not all) of the crisp skin and fat. Chop the meat with a cleaver or heavy chef's knife. Add just enough sauce to moisten meat further and toss until well-blended. 

Either serve the barbecue immediately with sauce on the side, or reheat in the top of a double boiler. Serve the barbecue plain or on buns topped with coleslaw, if desired. -- From "Stalking The Green Fairy" by James Villas 

