Grilled Corn, Fennel and Purple Potato Chowder 
Tuesday, December 21, 2004
Makes 4 to 6 servings 

This recipe is at once trendy and timeless, featuring three foods that were the mainstay of the Meso-American diet long before the arrival of Columbus: potatoes, chiles and corn. The fennel provides a Mediterranean touch. Purple potatoes originated in Peru and can be found at specialty greengrocers. But Yukon Golds or red potatoes will look and taste good, too. Grilling the corn adds an intriguing smoky flavor. 


3 ears fresh corn, shucked (see note) 
5 teaspoons extra-virgin olive oil (divided) 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
1 onion, finely chopped 
6 to 8 shallots, finely chopped (about 1/2 cup) 
3 cloves garlic, minced 
2 poblano chiles or 1 large green bell pepper, cored and cut into 1/2-inch dice 
2 stalks celery, finely diced 
1 quart canned or homemade vegetable broth (4 cups) 
1 bouquet garni (bay leaf, thyme and parsley tied up in cheesecloth) 
1 pound purple potatoes or regular potatoes, scrubbed and cut into 1/2-inch dice 
1 small or 1/2 large fennel bulb, cut into 1/4-inch dice (about 1 cup) 
1 cup low-fat or nonfat sour cream (or to taste) 
Freshly grated nutmeg 
2 tablespoons chopped fresh dill, flat-leaf (Italian) parsley or fennel tops 

Brush the corn with 2 teaspoons olive oil and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Grill the corn over medium heat, turning often, until golden brown on all sides, about 8 minutes. 

Transfer the corn to a plate to cool, then cut the kernels off the cobs, reserving the cobs. (The easiest way to do this is to lay the corn on its side on a cutting board. Make lengthwise cuts with the knife to remove the kernels.) 

Heat the remaining 3 teaspoons olive oil in a large, heavy saucepan. Add the onion, shallots, garlic, chiles and celery, and cook over medium heat until soft but not brown, stirring often, about 5 minutes. 

Stir in the vegetable broth, bouquet garni, potatoes, fennel and corn cobs. Simmer the soup for 5 minutes. Stir in the corn kernels and continue simmering the chowder for 10 minutes, or until all the vegetables are soft but not mushy. Remove and discard the corn cobs and bouquet garni. 

Whisk in the sour cream and salt, pepper and nutmeg to taste. Simmer the chowder for 2 minutes. Sprinkle with dill and serve at once. Note: If fresh corn is not available, toss 1 pound frozen corn with 2 teaspoons vegetable oil and place in a shallow baking pan. Broil until golden brown -- about 5 minutes. -- From "Steven Raichlen's High-Flavor Low-Fat Vegetarian Cooking" 

