Lobel?s Prime Meat Market, located on Madison Avenue in New York City since 1953, has been called the Tiffany of butchers. This family-run business has been passed down through five generations, each upholding the high standards that have earned Lobel?s a reputation as a supplier of the best prime-quality meats. Today, Leon Lobel and his son, Evan Lobel, join Martha to review some of their special techniques for preparing meat on the grill. 

?Prime? is the highest grade of meat available and is primarily sold through butcher shops. The Lobels age their meats up to six weeks to maximize tenderness and flavor. Though many of us are hesitant to cook these high-quality cuts of meat on the grill, the Lobels are big believers in grilling outdoors for juicy, smoky, delicious results. An open grill is fine for steaks, burgers, chops, hot dogs, and kebabs, but for other meats, such as lamb, rib roast, and whole chicken, a closed grill is necessary for proper temperature control. 

GRILLED STANDING RIB ROAST WITH LEON 

Rib roast, or prime rib, is known for its juicy, tender, highly flavorful meat. This indulgent cut of meat is perfect for a celebration or family gathering, and a large roast (including the short ribs) will feed up to sixteen people. Leon Lobel teaches Martha his special method for cooking a rib roast to perfection on an outdoor grill. His secrets include cutting the bones from the meat before cooking, and wrapping the roast in cabbage leaves to prevent burning on the edges. Rib roasts have a thick layer of fat, so no additional oil is required for cooking. Leon?s sauce, which he prepares in a saucepan right on the grill, is the perfect accompaniment for the succulent meat.   
 
GRILLED STANDING RIB ROAST
Serves 12 to 14 
 
  7-rib standing rib roast (about 15 pounds)
Coarse salt and freshly ground pepper
Juice of 1 lemon
2 to 3 cabbage leaves
Pale ale, such as Sierra Nevada, for basting
Leon?s Sauce (recipe follows)
Vegetable-oil cooking spray  
 
 1. Using a sharp knife, make a small slit in the roast?s fat. Remove the meat from the bone (or have your butcher do it for you, reserving the bone). Season well with salt and pepper. Squeeze the lemon juice over the fat to prevent flare-ups. Using kitchen twine, tie the bones to the meat. 
 
2. Place 2 to 3 cabbage leaves on the meat side of the roast. Tie the leaves onto the roast with twine in several places to prevent the meat from burning. 
 
3. Prepare a charcoal or gas grill, arranging the coals for indirect cooking. Lightly coat the grilling rack with cooking spray. The coals should be moderately hot to hot. 
 
4. Over the hottest part of the grill, sear the meat on the bone side and the narrow sides, 1 to 2 minutes per side. Sear the meat side, about 3 minutes. Use tongs when turning roast to avoid unnecessary punctures, so meat retains as much moisture as possible. 
 
5. Transfer the roast, bone side down, to the cooler part of the grill. Cover the grill, and cook 25 minutes. Baste with ale, and turn roast; cook 15 minutes more. Continue grilling, turning and basting occasionally with ale. Remove the cabbage leaves after 45 minutes. One hour into the cooking time, insert an instant-read thermometer into the thickest part of the meat, not too close to a bone. Continue cooking until thermometer registers between 135ø and 140ø (1 hour and 10 minutes to 1 hour and 20 minutes). Remove roast from grill, and let rest 5 to 10 minutes before carving.  

 
 
 LEON?S SAUCE
Makes about 1 1/2 cups 
 
  3 tablespoons olive oil
1/2 cup red wine, such as a dry burgundy
2 tablespoons finely chopped garlic
1 tablespoon unsalted butter
8 ounces white button mushrooms, sliced 1/8 inch thick
10 sprigs curly parsley, chopped
2 tablespoons demi-glace
Coarse salt and freshly ground black pepper  
 
 Heat the olive oil until bubbling and hot (about 1 minute) in a medium skillet set over medium-high heat. Remove skillet from heat; add the wine, garlic, butter, mushrooms, parsley, and demi-glace. Season with salt and pepper. Return to heat, and cook, stirring often, until mushrooms are tender and the sauce is thick and reduced enough to coat the back of a wooden spoon (5 to 7 minutes). Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, up to 1 week.  
 
