Brisket a la Carbonnade 
Tuesday, December 28, 2004
Makes 8 servings Active time: 25 minutes Start to finish: 41/2 hours 


1 31/2- to 4-pound beef brisket, trimmed of excess fat 
3/4 teaspoon salt, plus more to taste 
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper, plus more to taste 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
2 pounds onions, halved lengthwise and thinly sliced lengthwise (6 cups) 
1 Turkish bay leaf or 1/2 California bay leaf 
1 12-ounce bottle beer (not dark) 
1 dried-porcini bouillon cube (less than 1/2 ounce) or beef bouillon cube, crumbled 
1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar 

Put rack in middle of oven and preheat oven to 350 degrees. 

Pat brisket dry and sprinkle with 3/4 teaspoon salt and 1/2 teaspoon pepper. Heat oil in a 6- to 8-quart, wide, heavy, ovenproof pot over moderately high heat until hot but not smoking. Brown meat well on all sides, about 10 minutes total. Transfer to a platter. 

Add onions and bay leaf to fat remaining in pot and cook over moderate heat, stirring occasionally, until onions are golden, 10 to 12 minutes. 

Remove from heat and transfer half of onions to a bowl. Set brisket over onions in pot, then top with remaining onions. Add beer, bouillon cube and vinegar (liquid should come about halfway up sides of meat; add water if necessary) and bring to a boil. 

Cover pot, transfer to oven and braise until meat is very tender, 3 to 31/2 hours. Let meat cool in sauce, uncovered, for 30 minutes. 

Transfer brisket to a cutting board. Skim off any fat from sauce, discard bay leaf and season sauce with salt and pepper. Slice meat across the grain and serve with sauce. Note: The brisket actually improves in flavor if braised 2 days ahead. Cool the meat in the sauce, uncovered. Cover it with parchment paper or wax paper, then the lid, and refrigerate. Remove any solidified fat before reheating. To reheat, slice the cold meat across the grain and arrange in a shallow baking pan. Spoon the sauce over the meat and reheat in a 325-degree oven for 45 minutes. Do not use a large roasting pan for this recipe. The wider the pan used to oven-braise the meat, the more water that must be added, resulting in a too-thinly flavored sauce. -- From "The Gourmet Cookbook," edited by Ruth Reichl 

