Cuban Black Bean Soup With Sofrito and Smoked Turkey 
Tuesday, March 15, 2005
The Oregonian 
Makes 6 servings Hands-on: 30 minutes Total time: 21/2 hours, plus overnight soaking 

Cuban cookery often includes a flavorful sofrito -- an aromatic base mixture of vegetables and spices. This soup is made with smoked turkey leg(s) instead of the traditional higher-fat smoked ham hock. A piping-hot bowl of this smoky, dark soup with a green salad and a loaf of whole-grain bread makes a delicious, filling meal. 


1 pound dried black beans (2 cups) 
1 peeled medium onion, stuck with 8 whole cloves 
3 bay leaves 
1 pound smoked turkey leg(s) 
8 cups reduced-sodium chicken broth 
8 cups cold water 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 
1 tablespoon paprika 
1 large onion, diced 
1 tablespoon chopped garlic 
1 tablespoon ground cumin 
1 15-ounce can diced tomatoes 
2 tablespoons malt or sherry vinegar 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 

Cover the beans with several inches of water and soak overnight. 

Drain and rinse the soaked beans. In a large stockpot, add the beans and enough water to cover. Bring to a boil, reduce heat and simmer for 5 minutes. 

Drain the beans. Return beans to the pot. Add the clove-studded onion, bay leaves and turkey. Cover with chicken broth and water. Bring to a boil, skim off any surface foam and reduce heat to a light simmer. Cook for 2 hours or until the beans are soft. 

Remove and discard onion and bay leaves. Remove turkey; when cool enough to handle, dice meat and reserve. 

With an immersion blender or in food processor or blender, puree three-fourths of the beans along with some of their liquid, leaving the remaining beans whole. 

Add oil and paprika to a skillet and, over medium heat, saute the diced onion, garlic, turkey and cumin until vegetables soften. Add the tomatoes and vinegar. Add the sauteed mixture to the beans. Return the soup to a boil and season to taste with salt and pepper. -- Adapted from "Beans" by Aliza Green 

PER SERVING: calories: 456 (15% from fat); protein: 42 grams; total fat: 8 grams; saturated fat: 1 gram; cholesterol: 23 mg; sodium: 729 mg; carbohydrate: 58 grams; dietary fiber: 13 grams 

