PENNSYLVANIA DUTCH SOFT SUGAR COOKIES 


MAKES 20-24 (4-INCH) COOKIES 
3 1/3 cups all-purpose white flour 
1/2 teaspoon baking soda 
1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, slightly softened 
1 2/3 cups sugar 
1 1/2 teaspoons finely grated lemon zest 
2 large eggs 
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract 
1 cup sour cream 
3-4 tablespoons sugar, for topping 
Raisins, for topping 
In a large bowl, sift together the flour, baking soda, cream of tartar and salt. Set aside. In another large bowl, with an electric mixer on medium speed, beat together the butter, sugar and lemon zest until light and well blended. Add the eggs and vanilla and beat until very smooth and fluffy. Beat in the sour cream, then the dry ingredients, until evenly incorporated. It's all right if the dough seems too sticky; it will firm up when chilled. Freeze the dough until thoroughly chilled and firm, at least 3 hours or overnight. (If necessary, allow the dough to warm up slightly before using, but it is easier to work with when very cold.)


Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Grease several baking sheets or coat with non-stick spray.


Working with about a third of the dough at a time and keeping the remaining dough chilled, divide into 7 or 8 equal portions. With well-greased hands, shape and roll the portions into balls. Transfer the balls to baking sheets, spacing about 3-3 1/4 inches apart. Let the balls stand to soften just slightly. Grease the bottom of a large, flat, wide-bottomed glass with vegetable oil. Dip the glass bottom into a shallow saucer containing the sugar, shaking off the excess. One at a time, press down on the balls with the glass until they are about 3 inches in diameter, dipping into the sugar before flattening each cookie. (If necessary, wipe any buildup from the glass bottom, oil again, dip into sugar, and continue.) Press a raisin into the center of each cookie. Repeat the cookie-shaping process until all the dough is used.


Bake the cookies, one sheet at a time, in the upper third of the oven for 8-11 minutes, until just tinged with brown at the edges and barely firm in the centers; for very moist cookies, be careful not to overbake. Reverse the sheet from front to back halfway through baking to ensure even browning. Transfer the sheet to a wire rack and let stand until the cookies firm up slightly, 1-2 minutes. Using a spatula, transfer the cookies to wire racks. Let stand until completely cooled.


Store in airtight container for up to 1 week or freeze for up to 1 month.

From "The All-American Cookie Book"

