From the cookbook, "The Perfect Recipe"

Perfect Meat Loaf Serves: 6-8 

If you like, you can double the glaze and omit the bacon topping from the loaf. 
Brush on half the glaze before baking, and the other half during the last 
15minutes of baking time. 

Brown Sugar-Ketchup Glaze 

* cup ketchup or chili sauce 
2 Tablespoons light or dark brown sugar 
2 teaspoons cider or white vinegar 


Meat Loaf 

2 teaspoons vegetable oil 
1 medium onion, chopped 
2 garlic cloves, minced 
2 large eggs 
1 teaspoon dried thyme leaves 
1 teaspoon salt 
* teaspoon ground black pepper 
2 teaspoons Dijon mustard 
2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce 
* teaspoon hot red pepper sauce 
* cup milk, buttermilk or low-fat plain yogurt 
1 pound ground chuck 
* pound ground veal 
* pound ground pork 
2/3 cup quick oatmeal or saltine crackers crushed 
1/3 cup minced fresh parsley leaves 
6-8 ounces thin-sliced bacon (8-9 slices) 


1. Glaze: Mix all ingredients in a small bowl; set aside. 

2. Meat Loaf: Preheat the oven to 350 F. Heat oil in a medium skillet. Add onion 
and garlic, and
saute until softened, about 5 minutes; set aside to cool. 

3. Mix eggs with thyme, salt, pepper, mustard, Worcestershire, pepper sauce and 
milk or yogurt. In a large bowl add egg mixture to the ground chuck, ground veal 
and ground pork. Next add the oatmeal or crackers (depending upon what you have 
decided to add), parsley, cooked onion and garlic; mix with a fork until evenly 
blended and meat mixture does not stick to bowl. (If mixture does stick, add 
additional milk, a couple tablespoons at a time, and continue stirring until 
mixture stops sticking.) 

4. Turn the meat mixture onto a work surface. With wet hands, pat mixture into a 
loaf approximately 9x5 inches. 

5. To bake free-form: Cover a wire rack with foil; prick foil in several places 
with a fork to allow drainage. Place rack on a shallow roasting pan lined with 
foil for easy cleanup. Set formed loaf on rack. Brush loaf with all of glaze, 
then arrange bacon slices, crosswise, over loaf, overlapping them slightly and 
tucking them under the loaf to prevent curling. 

6. Bake loaf until bacon is crisp and loaf registers 160 F., about 1 hour. Cool 
for at least 20 minutes. Slice and serve. 

7. To bake in a loaf pan: Omit bacon and double glaze. Turn meat mixture into a 
loaf pan WITH a PERFORATED bottom, fitted with a drip pan. Use a fork to pull 
mixture away from pan sides. Brush mixture with half of the glaze. Bake until 
glaze is set, about 45 minutes. Brush with remaining glaze and continue to bake 
until second coat has set and loaf registers 160 F about 15 minutes longer. 
