Kids love doughnuts, so Martha invites two young friends to help her make a batch to serve at a Halloween party. This recipe produces wonderfully light, golden-brown doughnuts that you can dip in cinnamon sugar or powdered sugar.
        
Doughnuts  
Makes about two dozen

2 packages dry yeast or 2 heaping teaspoons bulk dry yeast
1/2 cup warm water
1/2 cup warm milk
3/4 cup sugar
Pinch of salt
2 large eggs, lightly beaten
6 tablespoons vegetable oil
5 cups unbleached, sifted flour, plus extra for rolling out and cutting
1 teaspoon ground mace
2 quarts (8 cups) melted solid Crisco shortening for frying
Confectioners' sugar or cinnamon sugar, for sprinkling
                
1. In a large bowl, sprinkle the yeast over the water. Stir to dissolve. Add the milk, sugar, salt,eggs, and oil, and beat in 2 cups of the flour until the mixture is smooth.
             
2. Sift 2 more cups of flour with the mace in a small bowl; beat the dry ingredients into the yeast mixture with a wooden spoon. Add enough of the remaining flour to make a soft, manageable dough. Cover, and let rise in a warm, draft-free place until the dough has doubled in bulk, about 1 hour.
             
3. Punch down the dough, and turn it out onto a well-floured surface. Turn the dough to cover it entirely with flour, adding flour as needed. Knead8 to 10 times, or until dough is elastic and smooth. Cover the dough with a large inverted bowl, and let rest for 15 minutes. Using a floured rolling pin, roll out the dough to a 1/2-inch thickness. Cut circles with a floured doughnut cutter, and lift the doughnuts with a spatula onto a floured cloth or surface. Reroll the scraps and cut additional doughnuts, keeping the holes to fry separately, if desired. Cover the doughnuts with a cloth, and let double in bulk, about 45 minutes.
             
4. Meanwhile, in a deep pan, slowly bring at least2 inches of melted shortening to a temperature of 365ø to 375ø over moderate heat. With a spatula, slip the doughnuts into the shortening, cooking 2 or 3 at a time. After about 1 1/2 minutes, when the undersides are golden brown, turn doughnuts with a slotted spoon. Fry until the doughnuts are golden brown on both sides, about 3 minutes total. Drain on paper towels. While warm, place doughnuts on a wire rack over wax paper, and sprinkle with confectioners' sugar or cinnamon sugar. Or place the doughnuts in a paper bag with the sugar, and shake.
