From The San Francisco Ferry Plaza Farmers' Market Cookbook by Christopher Hirsheimer and Peggy Knickerbocker. Published by Chronicle Books, San Francisco. ? 2006 by Christopher Hirsheimer and Peggy Knickerbocker. All rights reserved. Used with permission.

Serves 2 to 4

This dish has appeared on San Francisco restaurant menus for decades, and is still regularly ordered at Original Joe's on Taylor Street, which dates to 1937. 

Some believe it was introduced as a late-night supper for carousing drinkers in the Barbary Coast days of the nineteenth century, while others claim it was invented in the late 1920s by dance-band musicians. Regardless of its origin, it has long been considered a good hangover cure.

This satisfying m‚lange of ground grass-fed beef, spinach, onions, and eggs makes a hearty meal for lunch or supper for two. To serve four, accompany with a substantial salad or a potato side dish. 

3 or 4 large eggs 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
4 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 
1 pound ground grass-fed beef 
1 clove garlic, minced 
1 large onion, any kind, finely chopped 
1 pound spinach, tough stems removed and leaves chopped 
1/2 teaspoon dried oregano 
1. In a bowl, lightly beat the eggs until blended and season with salt and pepper. Set aside.

2. In a large, heavy skillet, heat 2 tablespoons of the olive oil over medium-high heat. Crumble the beef into the pan and cook, stirring, until some of the red is gone but not a minute longer. This will take only a few minutes (keep it pink). Pour off the excess fat and transfer the meat to a bowl. Set aside and keep warm.

3. Meanwhile, add the remaining 2 tablespoons olive oil to the skillet and place over medium heat. Add the garlic and onion and cook, stirring occasionally, until the onion is translucent, 3 to 4 minutes. Add the spinach and cook, stirring occasionally, until it wilts and is tender, 3 to 5 minutes. Season with salt and pepper. Return the meat to the pan, add the oregano, and taste and adjust the seasoning.

4. Add the eggs, reduce the heat to low, and cook, stirring constantly, just until the eggs are set, another minute or two, then serve.

LYNNE'S TIPS

Grass-fed beef is set apart from conventional beef by its Omega-3 fatty acids, lower count of saturated fat, chewier texture, and higher price. The key to excellent grass-fed beef is the season. Cattle need to have access to pasture land that is fresh and lush. Off-season, grain-fed beef will be more tender and flavorful. When seasonal grass-fed beef isn't available, or you don't want to pay the premium, look for organically raised beef without added antibiotics and hormones.
Take care not to overcook the eggs. You want some creaminess to the finished dish.
A generous sprinkling of freshly grated Parmigiano-Reggiano over each serving won't hurt.
For a little heat stir in a pinch of red pepper flakes when saut‚ing the onions.
