 Makes 4 servings 

A dense loaf like the Como from Grand Central Bakery works particularly well for this dish. Look for mild pepperoncini, as hot peppers would make the salad quite spicy. If you feel like splurging, purchase top-quality Spanish or Italian oil-packed canned tuna, which is a world apart from the average albacore. If you want to skip the tuna altogether, substitute leftover roast or grilled chicken, even steak -- just remember to skip the anchovy in the vinaigrette. 

1 28-ounce can diced tomatoes, well-drained 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
8 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil (divided) 
5 cups 1-inch bread cubes (lightly packed) 
3 tablespoons water 
2 tablespoons white wine vinegar 
1 large garlic clove, minced 
2 anchovy fillets, minced 
Pinch granulated sugar 
1/3 cup thinly sliced pepperoncini 
4 teaspoons brine-packed capers 
1/2 cup coarsely chopped mixed herbs (lightly packed; see note) 
2 6-ounce cans solid white or albacore tuna, drained 

Adjust oven rack to within 4 inches of broiler. Spread tomatoes onto a rimmed baking sheet, season with salt and pepper, and drizzle with 1 tablespoon of the olive oil. Broil until tomatoes are glossy looking and lightly charred, 7 to 10 minutes. Transfer to a bowl and set aside. 

Meanwhile, toss bread in a large mixing bowl with water, 3 tablespoons of the olive oil, and salt and pepper to taste. Spread bread in a single layer on the baking sheet. Broil, stirring frequently, until lightly toasted and golden brown, 2 to 5 minutes. Return to mixing bowl. 

In a small bowl, combine the remaining 4 tablespoons olive oil, vinegar, garlic, anchovy and sugar. Whisk until emulsified; adjust seasoning with salt and pepper to taste. 

Add tomatoes, pepperoncini, capers and herbs to the bowl with the bread. Mix gently with a large rubber spatula until combined. Drizzle dressing over top and carefully mix until dressing is incorporated. Add tuna in large pieces and mix until just incorporated (large pieces of tuna should remain). Serve immediately. Note: At least half or all of the herbs should be Italian parsley. The remainder can be a blend of basil, mint, oregano or marjoram. 





