3/4 cup water
3 Tbs extra virgin olive oil
2 Tbs fresh grated parmesan cheese
2 cups flour (Bread flour isn't necessary)
1/2 tsp salt
1/2 tsp sugar
1-1/2 tsp Rapid Rise or Bread Machine Yeast
1 tsp Italian seasoning

Add the ingredients to the bread maker in the order listed. Run on the dough cycle (no cooking). After the cycle is completed, place the dough in a greased bowl, cover with a towel and let it rest for 30 minutes. Oil a cookie sheet with extra virgin olive oil. Roll dough out on the counter top or simply stretch it into place on the sheet. Be sure to stretch it all the way to the sides of the pan and pull a little up the sides to make a rim.

Preheat oven to 400 degs.

For focaccia bread, just brush the crust with more olive oil and sprinkle a bit of fresh rosemary on top. Bake for 10 to 13 minutes until top and bottom are brown.

For pizza, spread a thin layer of pizza sauce on the crust, sprinkle on a little Italian seasoning and then add mozzarella and any of your favorite toppings. Bake for 8 minutes, then turn the sheet so the front and back are uniformly cooked. Cook 6 to 8 minutes more, use your own opinion to judge doneness; chewy or crispy.

Variations: 
For very thick focaccia or pizza dough, allow the crust to rise for 30 minutes after it is stretched into the pan before adding toppings. It will take longer to cook, so adjust cooking time up a bit.

Substitute 1/2 cup whole wheat or rye flour for 1/2 cup white flour for a heartier crust.

Make small individual crusts for a "top it yourself" pizza party. Have the crusts rolled out, placing them side by side on the baking sheet and then let guests (especially kids)top their own from a variety of already prepared items; pepperoni slices, Italian sausage chunks, peppers, onions, mushrooms. Or get exotic and provide unusual topping like ham, pineapple, goat cheese, Greek olives or other ethnic variations.

Recipe may be doubled if your machine can make 1-1/2 lb loaves or larger.