These three recipes start with an institutional-size can of chickpeas, which are available at some warehouse stores, at some Middle Eastern markets and at grocery stores with extensive international sections. Adapted from Reem Azoury, co-owner and chef of Figs, a cafe in the Palisades neighborhood of Northwest Washington.

PART 1

Chunky Balila

With Citrus Explosion

Makes four to six 1-cup servings,

plus a base for the next 2 recipes

Simple to prepare and lightly seasoned, this is Azoury's version of balila, chickpeas boiled with garlic, lemon juice and spices, served in her native Lebanon. Mashing half the chickpeas as they cook creates the right texture and thickness. You'll have garlic-lemon dressing left over.

5 large cloves garlic, crushed

to a paste

1 cup lemon juice (from about

6 large lemons)

1 cup good-quality olive oil

One 6-pound, 14-ounce can chickpeas, with the liquid

(may substitute seven

15 1/2 -ounce cans)

1/2 teaspoon turmeric

Pinch saffron threads

1/4 teaspoon ground cumin

1/4 teaspoon ground coriander

1 bunch flat-leaf parsley,

finely chopped (about 2 cups)

Sweet paprika, for garnish

In a container with a tight-fitting lid, combine the crushed garlic, lemon juice and olive oil. Cover and shake until well blended. Set aside.

Place the chickpeas and their liquid in a large pot over medium-high heat, and bring to a boil. Add the turmeric, saffron threads, cumin and coriander, stirring to combine. Cook for 30 minutes, stirring and mashing about half of the chickpeas with a mortar or the back of a ladle, until the mixture has thickened slightly. Reserve 4 cups of the cooked chickpeas with about 1 cup of the liquid for the hummus recipe that follows.

To serve, divide among individual bowls and add 1 to 2 tablespoons of the garlic-lemon dressing to the center of each bowl; reserve the remaining dressing for another use and the remaining balila for the stew recipe that follows. Top with chopped parsley, and sprinkle with paprika. Serve hot.

Per serving (based on 6): 796 calories, 29 g protein, 135 g carbohydrates, 17 g fat, 0 mg cholesterol, 2 g saturated fat, 1,744 mg sodium, 26 g dietary fiber

Recipe tested by Bonnie S. Benwick; e-mail questions tofood@washpost.com

PART 2

Hummus

4 appetizer servings

What sets this basic hummus apart from many others is its smooth texture: neither too watery nor too much like spackle. Consider this recipe a starting point; according to Azoury, it is essential to look at, feel and taste the hummus as it comes together. You can omit the garlic, and you can add water, a touch of lemon juice or olive oil, as you like.

4 cups reserved cooked chickpeas with 1 cup liquid (see previous recipe)

2 tablespoons tahini (sesame paste)

Generous pinch salt

1 to 2 medium cloves garlic (optional)

Water (optional)

Lemon juice (optional)

Olive oil (optional)

For the hummus: In a food processor, combine the cooked chickpeas, tahini, salt and garlic, if using. Process until smooth, adding water, lemon juice or olive oil as desired. Cover and refrigerate until ready to serve.

Per serving: 330 calories, 13 g protein, 56 g carbohydrates, 7 g fat, 0 mg cholesterol, 1 g saturated fat, 807 mg sodium, 11 g dietary fiber

Recipe tested by Bonnie S. Benwick; e-mail questions to food@washpost.com

PART 3

Chickpea Stew

2 to 4 servings

The last of the balila combines with leftovers you might have on hand: tender meat from long-braised lamb shanks, cooked Yukon Gold potatoes. Azoury likes to use frozen Jerusalem artichokes and Misko brand dried vermicelli, both of which are available at Middle Eastern markets. The edamame is a recent tweak to the recipe.

For the vermicelli rice:

Canola oil

2 small nests dried vermicelli, crushed (about 2 1/2 ounces)

3 cups water

Salt

1 cup medium-grain rice

1 teaspoon unsalted butter, softened (optional)

For the stew:

About 2 cups balila

1 cup low-sodium chicken

or vegetable broth

1/2 cup cooked and boned

lamb shanks (optional)

1/2 cup cooked and cubed

Yukon Gold potatoes

1/2 cup cubed, frozen

Jerusalem artichokes

1/2 cup shelled frozen edamame

For the vermicelli rice: Add enough oil to lightly coat the bottom of a large nonstick skillet and heat over low heat. Add the crushed vermicelli and stir to coat evenly. Cook for 5 to 10 minutes, stirring occasionally, until golden. Add the water and salt, stirring to combine. Increase the heat to high and bring to a boil, then add the rice. Cook for 5 minutes, then reduce the heat to low, cover and cook for 15 minutes, until the rice is tender. Remove from the heat and let stand for 5 minutes. Uncover and stir in softened butter, if using.

While the vermicelli rice is cooking, make the stew: Combine all the ingredients in a large pot over medium heat, and cook for 5 to 8 minutes, or until the mixture begins to bubble around the edges and the frozen vegetables are heated through.

To serve, divide the vermicelli rice among bowls and ladle the stew on top. Serve hot.


Per serving (based on 4): 545 calories, 19 g protein, 99 g carbohydrates, 8 g fat, 0 mg cholesterol, 1 g saturated fat, 453 mg sodium, 9 g dietary fiber

Recipe tested by Bonnie S. Benwick; e-mail questions tofood@washpost.com

