Slow-Cooked Fish and Shellfish with Tomatoes and Parsley
Chef Tom Valenti of New York?s Ouest restaurant

Serves six

This recipe was going to be a take on a Tuscan dish called tegamone, which is a hodgepodge of fish and shellfish that?s started on the stovetop with tomato and white wine. But I got carried away and ended up with this cross section of tasty marine life united by a light, tomato-wine-saffron cooking liquid and rounded out with pasta or rice. 

To make it as easy as possible to put the individual ingredients in the right place, select the widest pot or slow cooker you have so that you can get everything in there without trouble.

INGREDIENTS

? 6 plum tomatoes, cut into small dice
? (or one large can of plum tomatoes,
? liquid drained)
? Coarse salt
? Freshly ground black pepper
? Sugar
? 2 tablespoons olive oil
? 1 large Leek sliced, white only
? 3 cloves garlic, peeled and sliced
? 2 tablespoons tomato paste
? 2 cups dry white wine
? 1/4 cup white vinegar
? 1 quart store-bought, reduced-sodium chicken broth, vegetable broth or homemade
? Pinch of saffron threads
? 12 small clams, cleaned and scrubbed
? 12 mussels, scrubbed and debearded
? 6 large scallops
? 20 ounces cod or snapper or bass, cut into 1-inch cubes
? 8 medium shrimp, preferably head on, shelled, deveined, and butterflied
? 3 cups small pasta cooked (orzo, riso, or pastina )
? 2 tablespoons chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley leaves

Recipe continues below &#8595; advertisement

DIRECTIONS

Thirty minutes before you want to cook, put the tomatoes in a bowl and season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar. Set aside.

Heat the olive oil in a wide, deep pot or slow cooker over medium-high heat until hot but not smoking. Add the leeks and garlic and saut‚ until softened but not browned. Add the reserved tomato and tomato paste and cook, stirring, until the ingredients are well incorporated, a few minutes more.

Add the wine, and simmer, scraping up any bits stuck onto the bottom of the pot, until it reduces. Add the broth and saffron, bring the liquid to a simmer. Taste and adjust the seasoning if necessary.

Simmer anywhere from 4 minutes to 4 hours.

Five to 10 minutes before you are ready to serve, add the clams and mussels to the pot and carefully immerse them in the liquid. Allow the clams and mussels to cook for about a minute. Season the scallops and fish with salt and pepper and carefully add them to the  pot. Place the shrimp in the liquid, pushing them gently just under the surface of the liquid.

Simmer for 3 to 4 minutes or until the shellfish has popped open, the fish flakes with pressure and the scallops and shrimp are opaque and firm to the touch.

Add the cooked pasta and allow to heat through for an additional minute or so. Sprinkle with parsley and serve.

Serving suggestions: Serve in individual deep bowls or family style. Toasted  croutons and roast garlic mayonnaise are nice accompaniments.