Big Daddy?s Chicken and Sausage Gumbo

None of the ingredients here are written in stone. Use what you like and vary the amounts to suit your own taste. Only the ratio of oil to flour in the roux is critical.

 4 lb, boned chicken thighs
Creole seasoning, as required (Zatarain?s is a good ?store bought? brand)
1/4 c oil 
1 c flour 
Oil, as required to make 1 cup
2 lg onions, chopped 
2 green bell peppers, chopped
4 ribs celery, chopped 
4 - 6 cloves garlic, minced 
4 qt chicken stock or water
2 tsp Creole seasoning, or to taste 
2 lb smoked sausage (Shumake?s is an excellent local brand), cut into 1/2" pieces 
1 bunch green onions, tops only, chopped 
 
I start with boneless, skinless chicken thighs, but any chicken pieces will do. You can either bone and skin them yourself or buy them that way. The chicken doesn?t care. You can use chicken pieces with the bones and skin intact, but you will have to remove the skin and meat later and it will be very messy. Also, if you prepare the chicken yourself, the skin and bones can be used to prepare the chicken broth for later.

Coat the chicken liberally on both sides with the Creole seasoning. Sprinkle it on until it looks like too much. It won?t be.

Heat the oil to a medium temperature in a large heavy pan, preferably cast iron. Brown the chicken well on both sides.

Remove chicken, reserving the left over oil. Pour the remaining oil into a measuring cup and add enough fresh oil to make one cup. Return the oil to the pan.

Now you start the roux. This is what I call a ?Two Beer Roux?. I gather all of the ingredients and two cans/bottles of beer. I open one beer and take a drink. Then I start the roux. By the time that I finish the second beer the roux is ready. If you don?t think that this would work for you, try this.
 
Heat the oil over a medium heat. Stir in the flour. Continue stirring the roux until it is darker than peanut butter, but not as brown as coffee. If the roux gets too dark and burns, throw it away and start over. You cannot save burnt roux. 

When the roux reaches the right color, add the vegetables. Continue stirring the mixture for five minutes. Don?t worry. The roux will not burn.

Add the chicken, stock (or water), Creole seasoning and sausage. Stir well. Simmer for one hour, stirring occasionally and removing any excess grease that floats to the top. 

If you left the skin and bone on your chicken, the messy part starts after about thirty minutes of simmering. The chicken will start falling off the bone. When this happens, remove the chicken from the gumbo. Remove the skin, bones and other undesirable parts of the chicken anatomy and return the meat to the pot. Continue simmering for the remainder of the hour. During this time, you may want to add more water, if the gumbo starts to dry out.


Serve over rice and top with the green onions. 




