"It's such an amazing textural experience," said Maria Hines, chef and owner of Tilth restaurant. "You have a nice layer of meat, a nice layer of fat, another nice layer of meat, another nice layer of fat, and when you cook it properly, you have a thin crispy layer on top that's crackly when you bite down into it -- which you should never do in less than three seconds."

Pork belly, for those who haven't made the connection yet, is what is cured and smoked for bacon, that ubiquitous breakfast meat so often taken for granted. Because the belly is an inexpensive cut and can be fatty, it sometimes doesn't hold as exalted a position as a meatier, leaner tenderloin or chop.

   In particular, chefs clamor for "Kurobuta" pork, which is the Japanese name for a breed of black pig also known as a Berkshire, considered an heirloom breed that offers better, "cleaner" flavor than the typical supermarket pork. Snake River Farms in Idaho and Niman Ranch in California are the two most recognizable national brands that sell Kurobuta pork. 

Raw, unsmoked pork belly may come with or without the skin. While it is fine to prepare the belly with the skin on, some preparations render the skin leathery and inedible. Pork belly is a commonly sold product in Asian markets, but you should be able to order it from your favorite butcher.

He typically finds the flavor and texture unpleasant in the pork found in most supermarkets and prefers heirloom breeds such as Kurobuta and Duroc. "Not many pork cuts can withstand long braising like the belly," Aidells said. "I even roast it, which isn't typical. Because of the shape, it's easy to cut a full-length pocket and stuff it."

When it comes to belly, Aidells, who lives in the Bay Area, chooses to buy Duroc pork because it's pretty tender throughout the belly, though the Kurobuta/Berkshire pork has softer, creamier tasting fat.

Aidells suggests buying belly pieces that are between 2 and 3 inches thick. Expect to pay about $3 per pound. Look for pieces that come from the front belly as opposed to the back to get a good balance of meat and fat. The way to tell is to look at how much lean meat is layered with the fat and choose a slab that is about 50/50 lean to fat. And, again, if you can't find the specialty pork belly, the regular belly is fine for most preparations.

The typical method for cooking pork belly is braising. Many chefs cure the belly with a spice rub first and then braise it in a liquid that ranges from a seasoned stock to soy sauce. The slow, even heat of braising transforms the belly into pure unctuousness. The cooking can stop there or the belly can be pan-fried or crisped in the oven before serving.

Accompaniments can be anything from polenta and cipollini onions (as served at Lark) to sunchoke puree and garlic rapini (at Boka) to arugula puree and onion marmalade (at Tilth). If you braise the belly Asian-style, with soy sauce, rice is a must.

TAMARIND-MARINATED PORK BELLY SKEWERS
SERVES 6 TO 8 AS AN APPETIZER

1 tablespoon tamarind paste (available in Asian markets) 
2 teaspoons brown sugar 
1 tablespoon Vietnamese fish sauce (nuoc mam) 
2 teaspoons minced fresh ginger 
1 tablespoon minced shallot or green onions 
1/2 teaspoon Chinese five-spice powder 
1 pound pork belly, skin removed and sliced into 1/4-inch-thick slices

Combine all of the marinade ingredients in a small bowl. Add the sliced pork belly to the marinade and marinate for at least 30 minutes or up to 2 hours at room temperature. 

Set up a gas or charcoal grill with a medium fire. Remove the pork from the marinade, thread on skewers to keep the slices from curling, and grill over medium coals for 2 to 3 minutes per side or until nicely browned. Serve at once.

Note: If you can find sliced, raw bacon (unsmoked), you can use that instead of slicing your own.From "Bruce Aidells's Complete Book of Pork"


PORK BELLY WITH GINGER, HONEY AND SOY
SERVES 6

PORK BELLY: 
1 pork belly piece (about 1 pound) 
2 tablespoons olive oil (optional) 
1/4-pound young, tender ginger, finely grated 
4 cloves garlic, coarsely chopped 
5 bay leaves, preferably fresh, partly torn 
Freshly ground black pepper 
2 cups honey, preferably wildflower 
2 cups top-quality soy sauce (shoyu or tamari) 
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into pieces and chilled 
GARNISH: 
Chopped fresh chives

If the pork belly still has the skin on, carefully trim it away. Heat a heavy deep skillet (not non-stick) over medium-high heat. Put the pork belly in the skillet, fat-side down, and sear until browned and the fat begins to render, about 5 minutes; turn the pork a few times, but spend more time on the fat side than on the meaty side. Transfer the pork belly to a plate and set aside. Pour off the fat from the skillet (you can keep it for cooking the aromatics if you wish) and set the skillet aside (no need to clean it).

Preheat oven to 250 degrees.

Heat 2 tablespoons of the reserved pork fat (if using), or the olive oil in a saucepan over medium heat. Add the ginger, garlic and bay leaves and season generously with pepper. Cook, stirring often, until quite aromatic, 2 to 3 minutes. Add the honey and soy sauce and stir to help the honey dissolve. Return the pork belly to the skillet and pour the soy-honey mixture over. Bring the liquid just to a low boil over medium-high heat, then transfer the skillet to the oven. Bake the pork belly, basting it occasionally with the pan liquid, until it is very tender, about 2 1/2 hours, turning the belly over after 1 hour. The liquid should not boil; decrease the oven temperature to 225 degrees if necessary.

When the pork belly is tender, take the skillet from the oven and transfer the pork belly to a cutting board; cover with foil to keep warm.

Strain the cooking liquid into a bowl, measure out 1 cup, and put in a small saucepan. Bring to a boil over medium heat (save the remaining cooking liquid for another use, if you like). Decrease heat to medium-low and simmer until reduced by a third, 5 to 7 minutes. Taste the liquid as it reduces, because less reduction time may be needed, given the robust flavors of the ingredients. (Overreducing can create too-strong flavors.) Add the butter and whisk so it melts creamily into the sauce; keep warm over very low heat.

Serving suggestion: Cut the pork belly on the diagonal into slices about 1/4-inch thick and serve it over a cannellini bean salad. Adapted from the "Rover's" cookbook


BRAISED PORK BELLY WITH GLAZED TURNIPS
SERVES 4

SPICE RUB: 
1 teaspoon black peppercorns 
1 teaspoon coriander seeds, toasted 
1/2 teaspoon dill seeds 
1 1/2 teaspoons coarse salt 
1 1/2 to 2 pounds boneless pork belly, skin on or skin off 
BRAISING LIQUID: 
1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil 
1 small yellow onion (about 4 ounces), coarsely chopped 
1 carrot, coarsely chopped 
1 celery stalk, coarsely chopped 
4 garlic cloves, coarsely chopped 
2 bay leaves 
4 whole cloves 
1/2 cup dry white wine or dry white vermouth 
1 cup chicken stock, homemade or store-bought 
TURNIPS: 
1 1/2-pound small turnips 
1 tablespoon reserved pork fat or unsalted butter 
1/4 cup chicken stock, homemade or store-bought, or as needed 
1 teaspoon sugar 
Coarse salt and freshly ground black pepper

Spice rub (1 to 2 days in advance): Combine the peppercorns, coriander and dill seed in a small mortar or a spice grinder. Grind until cracked but not reduced to a powder. Add the salt and grind briefly to combine.

Dry the pork well with paper towels and place it on a small baking sheet or large plate. Rub the spice mixture all over the pork, turning and rubbing until all the spices adhere; this may take a few turns. Cover with plastic and refrigerate for 1 to 2 days.

Heat the oven to 325 degrees. Brown the pork: Pat the surface of the pork dry with paper towels. If some of the spices come off, save these for later. Heat the oil in a large heavy skillet or shallow braising dish (4- to 5-quart) over medium-high heat. Add the pork, skin (or fat, if you bought skinless) side down and sear until the skin (or fat) sizzles and browns evenly, 8 to 10 minutes. Transfer the pork to a plate and pour off all but 2 tablespoons of the fat from the pan.

The aromatics: Return the pan to medium-high heat, add the onion, carrot and celery, and saut‚ until the vegetables are softening and beginning to brown, about 8 minutes. Add the garlic, bay leaves and cloves. Stir and saut‚ for another minute or so.

The braising liquid: Add the white wine, bring to a simmer, and stir with a wooden spoon to dislodge any seared-on bits from the bottom of the pan. Simmer until the wine reduces down to a couple of tablespoons, about 3 minutes. Add the stock and bring to a simmer.

The braise: Return the pork, skin side up, to the pan. Scrape in any spices that have fallen off the pork. Cover with foil or a secure lid, and slide into the middle of the oven. Braise, checking every 45 minutes to baste and to make sure that the liquid isn't simmering too rapidly or evaporating, until the pork is completely tender, 2 1/4 to 3 hours. Turn down the oven 10 or 15 degrees if the liquid is simmering too briskly. And if the pan threatens to dry out, add some water, about 1/4 cup at a time. Remove the pork from the oven and let cool in the braising liquid.

The finish: When the pork is cool enough to handle, heat the oven to 425 degrees. Transfer the pork to a cutting board, and set the pan aside. If the pork is skin-on, run a long sharp knife blade just under the skin and remove it. Score the exposed fat in a cross-hatch patter, making shallow cuts about 1 inch apart, then cut the pork into 4 even portions.

Browning the pork: Strain the braising liquid into a large glass measuring cup, pressing down lightly on the vegetables to extract any liquid (don't press so hard as to mash the vegetables), and then discard the vegetables. With a large spoon, skim off the excess fat that floats on the surface of the strained liquid -- reserve 1 tablespoon of the fat to saut‚ the turnips if you like (or you can use the butter). Return the pork to the braising pan or another shallow baking dish. Reserve 1/4 cup of the braising liquid for the turnips and pour the remaining braising liquid over the top of the pork. Slide the pork, uncovered, onto the middle oven rack until sizzling and browned and heated through, about 20 minutes.

Meanwhile, glaze the turnips: If using baby turnips, trim the stalks and scrub the turnips. For larger, purple-top turnips, peel and cut into 1-inch wedges. Choose a skillet just large enough to hold the turnips in a single layer (10-inch). Combine the turnips, the reserved pork fat or butter, sugar and reserved 1/4 cup braising liquid in the skillet. Season with salt and pepper, and bring to simmer over medium heat. Cover and simmer until the turnips are just tender when prodded with a small knife or thin skewer, 10 to 12 minutes. Remove the lid and cook, shaking and stirring, until the liquid has evaporated and the turnips have a golden sheen, another 5 minutes or so. If the pork is not ready, set aside in a warm place.

Serving: Serve the pork and turnips on warm plates. Taste the braising liquid for salt and pepper, adjust seasonings as necessary, and spoon a bit over each serving. From "All About Braising"

