Recipe courtesy Jimmy Bannos 
ShoEpisode:  Entertaining Ideas: Cajun Supper Club Soiree  w:  Cooking Live

RED HOT CHILE MARINADE: 
1/2 teaspoon ground chile de Arbol powder 
1/2 teaspoon ground ancho chile powder 
1/2 teaspoon ground cayenne 
1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 
1/3 cup freshly squeezed orange juice 
2 tablespoons water 
1 teaspoon Roasted-Garlic Puree, recipe follows 
1/2 teaspoon cane syrup or light molasses 
1/2 teaspoon ground Mexican oregano 
3 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 
1 1/2 pounds trimmed pork tenderloin 
1 teaspoon, plus 1/2 teaspoon Angel Dust Cajun Seasoning, recipe follows 
1 teaspoon Dry Rub Jerk Seasoning, recipe follows 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
1/8 teaspoon ground chile de Arbol powder 
2 teaspoons extra virgin olive oil 
Skewers (if wooden, soaked in water) 

To make the marinade, heat the chile de Arbol powder, ancho chile powder, cayenne, and cumin for 45 to 60 seconds in a small saute pan over medium-low heat. Transfer the spice mixture to a small bowl, and whisk in the orange juice, water, garlic puree, cane syrup, and oregano. Gradually whisk in the oil in a steady stream. 
Season the meat with 1 teaspoon of the Cajun seasoning and the jerk seasoning. Place pork into a plastic resealable bag, add the marinade, and seal the bag. Marinate in the refrigerator for at least 8 hours and up to 24 hours. 

When ready to cook, heat a charcoal or gas grill. Remove the pork from the plastic bag and discard the marinade. Slice the tenderloin into 12 equal portions. Working with 1 piece at a time, place a piece of pork between 2 pieces of plastic wrap and pound out to a thickness of 1/8-inch. Complete with remaining tenderloin pieces. Combine the remaining 1/2 teaspoon Cajun seasoning with the salt, pepper, and chile de Arbol powder. Lightly brush both sides of the meat with olive oil and sprinkle with seasoning mixture. Thread each piece of pork onto a skewer (for stability, use 2 skewers for each piece of meat). Grill over medium-high heat for 6 to 7 minutes, turning occasionally. Serve immediately with Cilantro-Cucumber Tzatzki Sauce (see separate recipe). 


ROASTED-GARLIC PUREE: 
1 cup peeled garlic cloves 
1 cup extra virgin or regular olive oil 

Preheat the oven to300 degrees. 
Place the garlic in a small ovenproof container and pour in the oil. Use additional oil if needed to completely immerse all the garlic cloves. Cover the container with aluminum foil and roast 1 hour, until garlic is soft and light golden brown. 

Strain the garlic and place in a blender along with 2 tablespoons of the oil. Puree to a smooth consistency, adding a small amount of oil if necessary. Pour into a container and cover the top of the puree with a thin layer of the oil. Cover and store in the refrigerator. 

Yield: 1 cup 


ANGEL DUST CAJUN SEASONING: 
3 tablespoons Hungarian paprika 
1 1/2 tablespoons Spanish paprika 
5 teaspoons salt 
1 1/4 teaspoons dried thyme leaves 
1 1/4 teaspoons dried oregano 
1 teaspoon ground white pepper 
1/2 teaspoon dried basil 
1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
1/8 teaspoon garlic powder 
1/8 teaspoon onion powder 
DRY RUB JERK SEASONING: 
2 tablespoons onion powder 
1 tablespoon ground allspice 
1 tablespoon ground thyme 
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 
2 teaspoons ground cloves 
1 teaspoon granulated sugar 
1 teaspoon ground coriander 
1 teaspoon ground habanero chile powder 
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
1 teaspoon garlic powder 
1/2 teaspoon Hungarian paprika 
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg 
1/4 teaspoon salt 


ANGEL DUST CAJUN SEASONING Combine all ingredients in a small bowl until thoroughly mixed. Store in an airtight container. The spice mix keeps its best flavor for about 2 months. 
Yield: 1/2 cup 

DRY RUB JERK SEASONING Combine all ingredients in a small bowl. Store in an airtight container. The mix can be kept for up to 2 months. 

Yield: 1/2 cup 




