2 pounds boneless skinless chicken thighs, about 6 pieces 
2 onions, chopped 
1 can (14 1/2 ounces) diced tomatoes, preferably fire-roasted 
1/4 cup each chopped fresh: parsley, cilantro 
2 teaspoons sweet paprika 
1 teaspoon each: salt, ground cumin, cinnamon 
1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon ground red pepper  
1/8 teaspoon ground saffron, optional 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter 
1/3 cup canola oil  
3 tablespoons confectioners' sugar 
4 eggs, lightly beaten 
12 sheets (about 2/3 of a 1-pound package) phyllo dough, thawed according to package directions  
1/3 cup chopped marcona almonds, or regular blanched, toasted almonds  



1 Combine the chicken, onions, tomatoes, parsley, cilantro, paprika, salt, cumin, 1/2 teaspoon of the cinnamon, ground red pepper and saffron in a large saucepan or Dutch oven; heat over medium heat to a simmer. Cover pan; reduce heat to low. Simmer, stirring often, until the chicken is tender and juices run clear, about 25 minutes. Remove the chicken with tongs to a plate; let cool. Meanwhile, melt the butter with the oil in a bowl in the microwave on high, about 30 seconds; set aside. Combine the sugar with remaining 1/2 teaspoon of the cinnamon in a small bowl; set aside.



2 Heat the onion mixture to a boil; boil gently, uncovered and stirring often, until the juices are mostly evaporated, about 10 minutes. Add the eggs; cook, stirring gently, until the eggs are set like soft scrambled eggs; cool. Pull the cooled chicken into large shreds. Heat oven to 350 degrees. Butter the bottom and sides of at 13-by-9-inch baking pan with some of the butter mixture.

3



Lay a clean kitchen towel on the counter; unfold the phyllo sheets on it. Cover the phyllo with another clean towel so the phyllo doesn't dry out. Lay a third clean towel on the counter in front of you; place one sheet of phyllo on it. Brush the sheet with the butter mixture to coat evenly. Top with another phyllo sheet; butter it. Repeat to make a stack of 4. Arrange this stack of 4 phyllo sheets lengthwise in the baking pan. Repeat to make a second stack of 4 buttered phyllo sheets; arrange the stack widthwise in the pan.



4 Spoon the egg mixture into the pan, spreading it evenly. Top with the shredded chicken, then the almonds. Sprinkle with about 1 tablespoon of the cinnamon-sugar mixture. Fold in the overhanging phyllo sheets. Make one more stack of 4 buttered phyllo sheets; use this stack to cover the pan. Tuck all the phyllo sheets into the pan to enclose the filling. Brush top with butter.

5



Bake 20 minutes; reduce the oven temperature to 300 degrees. Bake until the phyllo is golden, about 40 minutes; let cool 10 minutes. Sprinkle the top with the remaining cinnamon-sugar. Cut the bestilla into large rectangles with a serrated knife.

Nutrition information



Per serving: 563 calories, 59% of calories from fat, 37 g fat, 12 g saturated fat, 210 mg cholesterol, 30 g carbohydrates, 28 g protein, 647 mg sodium, 3 g fiber



