Recipe:
1/2 cup unsalted butter, cut into pieces
3 ounces semi-sweet, cut into small pieces
3 ounces bittersweet chocolate, cut into small pieces
3 large eggs, separated
1/3 cup granulated white sugar
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/8 teaspoon cream of tartar
1 tablespoon granulated white sugar

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F and place rack in center of oven. 

Generously butter  4 - 3/4 cup ramekins and dust the insides with granulated white sugar. 

Place the prepared molds on a baking sheet and set aside 

In a stainless steel bowl suspended over a saucepan of simmering water, melt the butter and chocolate. Remove from heat and set aside while you whip the egg yolks.

In an electric mixer beat the egg yolks and 1/3 sugar until thick, pale, and fluffy. (When you slowly raise the beaters the batter will fall back into the bowl in slow ribbons.) Beat in the vanilla extract and then fold in the melted chocolate mixture.

In another clean bowl whip the egg whites until frothy. Add the cream of tartar and continue to whip until soft peaks form. Gradually add the 1 tablespoon of granulated white sugar and whip until stiff peaks form. 

With a rubber spatula or wire whisk gently fold the beaten whites into the chocolate mixture, just until incorporated. Do not over mix or the batter will deflate. 

Divide the batter between the prepared molds, filling about 3/4 full. 

Note: You can prepare the chocolate mixture several hours ahead of time. Simply make the recipe, pour into the prepared molds, cover with plastic wrap, and refrigerate.  Bake just before serving. When the batter is cold the cakes may take a minute or two longer to bake.

Bake for 10 to 15 minutes or until the outside edges of the cakes are set but the middle still looks a little wet. You may have cracks on the top surface of the cakes.
Immediately remove from oven and let them rest for a minute or two. Run a palette or sharp knife around the edge of each cake and then invert onto the center of each serving plate.  Carefully remove the mold. 
Sprinkle the top of each cake with confectioners sugar and place a dollop of softly whipped cream with a little vanilla and liquor (if desired) mixed in.

Makes 4 - 3/4 cup individual cakes
