The oil must be really hot when the fish hits the pan for the skin to turn crisp and golden. Shake the pan back and forth on the burner occasionally to keep the trout from sticking to the bottom and tearing the skin.

 The tart lime and crisp fish call for a white wine with good acidity. A California or New Zealand sauvignon blanc will be good here.
 Search for easy-to-find lively, assertive sauvignon blanc Crisp Lime Brook Trout
Recipe by Quick From Scratch Fish & Shellfish 
 
(26 people have added this recipe to their favorites.)   
 
Log in or sign up to review Crisp Lime Brook Trout
Recipe by Quick From Scratch Fish & Shellfish 
 
Cooking Guides
Visit our Fish/Seafood Cooking Guide
Visit our Fast Cooking Guide 
Slideshows
Find 23 more recipes in our Quick Fish slideshow. 
 
 
Buzz up! ? Melanie AcevedoCrisp Lime Brook TroutSERVINGS: 4 FastIngredients
1 tablespoon lime juice
1/2 teaspoon grated lime zest
1 1/8 teaspoons salt
Fresh-ground black pepper
1/2 cup olive oil
3 tablespoons cooking oil, plus more if needed
8 trout fillets (about 2 pounds in all) 
Directions
In a small bowl, whisk together the lime juice, lime zest, 1/8 teaspoon of the salt, and a pinch of pepper. Add the olive oil slowly, whisking. Heat the oven to 200ø. Cover a baking sheet with paper towels. 
In a large nonstick frying pan, heat the cooking oil over moderately high heat. Sprinkle the trout with the remaining 1 teaspoon salt and 1/2 teaspoon pepper. Put half the fillets in the pan, skin-side down, and cook until golden, about 3minutes. Turn and cook until just done, about 1 minute longer. Transfer the fillets to the prepared baking sheet, skin-side up and keep warm in the oven while cooking the remaining fillets. Add more oil between batches if necessary. Serve, skin-side up, surrounded by the lime dressing. 
Notes
Fish Alternatives
The acidity of the lime juice in the dressing pairs well with a wide range of fish. Try saut‚ed or grilled kingfish, mackerel, or porgy fillets. 

Variation: 
Crisp Lime Brook Trout with Fresh Herbs: 
Add 2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro, parsley, or chives to the dressing.
