Recipe courtesy Guy Fieri

4 tablespoons olive oil 
1 large red onion, diced 
1 red bell pepper, julienned 
2 jalapenos, diced and seeded 
2 medium red potatoes, diced into 1/2-inch cubes 
2 tablespoons minced garlic 
2 pounds boneless, skinless chicken breast, cut into 1-inch strips 
1 tablespoon dried oregano 
1 teaspoon ground cumin 
Salt and pepper 
3 ounces your favorite tequila 
1 lime, juiced 
2 tablespoons minced fresh cilantro leaves 
24 corn tortillas 
Directions
Guacamole, recipe follows

Tomatillo Salsa, recipe follows

In medium saute pan over medium to high heat, add oil, onions, red bell peppers, jalapeno pepper, potatoes, garlic and chicken. Saute until chicken is cooked and vegetables are soft. Add the oregano and cumin and season with salt and pepper, to taste.

Deglaze with tequila and the lime juice and let simmer until liquid is almost evaporated. 

Remove from heat. Shred the chicken with 2 forks and let cool. Stir in the cilantro.

Wrap tortillas in paper towels and microwave for 2 minutes to make tortillas pliable. Place about 4 tablespoons of chicken mixture on 1 tortilla, roll tightly and close with a toothpick.

In large cast iron skillet, heat 1/2-inch of canola oil to 350 degrees F.

Add rolls to hot oil, placing toothpick seam down. Cook for 2 minutes or until golden brown and turn to other side.

Remove and drain on paper towel. Remove toothpicks and serve with guacamole and salsa. 

Guacamole:
3 ripe avocados, peeled and seeded

1 jalapeno, seeded, minced

1/4 cup diced red onion

1/4 cup diced tomato

1/2 bottle of your favorite beer 

4 tablespoons sour cream

1 lime, juiced

Small handful cilantro leaves, about 1/4 cup

Salt and pepper

Place all ingredients in a blender and puree. 

Tomatillo Salsa:
8 fresh tomatillos 

Olive oil

1/2 cup diced red onion 

1/2 cup plus 3 tablespoons diced tomato

1/4 cup water

1 teaspoon minced garlic

1 teaspoon chopped cilantro leaves

1 tablespoon white vinegar

2 tablespoons hot sauce

Salt and pepper 

2 tablespoons sour cream

Rub tomatillos with oil; grill until browned all over.

Place the tomatillos in a blender with remaining ingredients and puree. Season with salt and pepper. Top with sour cream and chopped tomatoes and serve.

Yield: about 3 cups 

