 It?s important to remember that you?re playing with fire here. Be sure there?s nothing flammable above or around the pan, and turn off the burner when you?re ready to light the alcohol. Most important: Never add the alcohol to the skillet directly from the bottle. Pour the alcohol into a measuring cup and then pour into the pan from that. Once ignited, you?ll get a large flame, and then a smaller blue flame that will burn for several seconds. Gently shaking the pan or stirring the sauce will expose more alcohol to the flames, reducing the raw alcohol flavor in the finished dish.   
   Frambroise Flamb‚es au Rhum or Raspberries Jubilee 
   Hands on: 10 minutes Total time: 10 minutes Serves: 4 
   When I couldn?t find fresh cherries for cherries jubilee, I decided to try the same method with raspberries. You can adapt this recipe back for cherries by simply substituting fresh or frozen cherries for the berries. 
   Raspberries can range from tart to sweet, so taste and begin with more sugar, up to ? cup, if the raspberries are on the tart side. Serve over ice cream or as a sauce for dessert crˆpes. 

1/3 cup or more granulated sugar 
4 tablespoons (« stick) unsalted butter 
Juice of 1 lime or lemon 
« cup dark rum, divided 
1 pound fresh raspberries 
   In a large skillet, stir the sugar over medium-high heat until it melts and lightly caramelizes, about 5 minutes. Remove pan from heat. Stir in butter, lime or lemon juice and ¬ cup rum. Caramel will harden. Return pan to medium heat and heat until caramel is completely melted, about 3 minutes. 
   Turn off burner; add raspberries and remaining rum. Keeping your face well away from pan, carefully ignite the rum by touching a fireplace match or butane torch lighter to the pan?s edge. Baste the raspberries until the flames die. Pour over ice cream or crˆpes and serve immediately. 
   Adapted from?At Home With the French Classics?by Richard Grausman (Workman Publishing, $14.95) 
   Per serving: 377 calories (percent of calories from fat, 38), 3 grams protein, 58 grams carbohydrates, 2 grams 