

Reese?s Cup Chocolate Peanut ButterÿCake

Posted on July 23, 2008 by Annie 


This past weekend we attended a dinner party celebrating two of my good friends? birthdays.ÿ My friend Allie cooked a fabulous dinner and I provided dessert.ÿ I remembered that her husband (and the birthday boy) loves the peanut butter and chocolate combination, so the moment I saw this cake I knew it would be perfect.ÿ This was definitely a huge hit with everyone at the party!ÿ I think this is actually the best chocolate cake I have ever made.ÿ It was incredibly fluffy and moist.ÿ And combined with the wonderful peanut butter frosting, it was to die for.ÿ Definitely make this cake ? but make sure you have tall glasses of milk to serve alongside, you will need them!



Reese?s Cup Chocolate Peanut Butter Cake
Ingredients:
For the cake:
2 cups all-purpose flour
« cup unsweetened cocoa powder
« tsp. baking powder
« tsp. baking soda
« tsp. salt
2 sticks unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 « cups sugar
2 large eggs
2 large egg yolks
1 tsp. vanilla extract
1 cup buttermilk
4 oz. bittersweet chocolate, melted and cooled (optional)

For decorating:
1 « ? 2 batches peanut butter frosting
miniature Reese?s cups, halved and/or chopped

Directions:
For the cake, center a rack in the oven and preheat the oven to 350ø.ÿ Butter two 9?2? round cake pans, dust the insides with flour, tap out the excess and line the bottoms with rounds of parchment paper.ÿ Place the pans on a baking sheet.

In a medium bowl, whisk together the flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, baking soda and salt.ÿ Set aside.

In a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat the butter on medium speed until soft and creamy.ÿ Add the sugar and beat for about 2 minutes, until thoroughly blended into the butter.ÿ Add the eggs and yolks one at a time, beating for one minute after each addition and scraping down the sides of the bowl as needed.ÿ Beat in the vanilla.ÿ Reduce the mixer speed to low and add the dry ingredients alternately with the buttermilk; add the dry ingredients in 3 additions and the buttermilk in 2 (beginning and ending with the dry ingredients).ÿ Mix each addition only until it is blended into the batter.ÿ Scrape down the bowl and add the melted chocolate, if using, folding it in with a spatula.ÿ Divide the batter between the prepared cake pans.

Bake for 26-30 minutes or until the cakes feel springy to the touch and start to pull away from the sides of the pans.ÿ Transfer to wire racks to cool for about 5 minutes, then run a knife around the sides of the cakes, unmold them and peel off the paper liners.ÿ Invert and cool to room temperature right side up.

To assemble the cake, place one cake layer on a cardboard circle covered in foil.ÿ Spread peanut butter frosting on top of the cake layer.ÿ (If desired, sprinkle with chopped Reese?s cups.)ÿ Place the second cake layer on top of the frosting.ÿ Frost the top and outside of the cake with remaining peanut butter frosting.ÿ Decorate with halved and chopped Reese?s cups as desired

Kathleen's Peanut Butter Icing:

1 cup confectioners' sugar 
1 cup creamy peanut butter 
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, at room temperature 
3/4 teaspoon pure vanilla extract 
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 
1/3 cup heavy cream Place the confectioners' sugar, peanut butter, butter, vanilla, and salt in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. Mix on medium-low speed until creamy, scraping down the bowl with a rubber spatula as you work. Add the cream and beat on high speed until the mixture is light and smooth.

Every time I eat at Macaroni Grill, I face the same problem? I?m always way to stuffed to order dessert! The solution? I prepare some of my favorite Macaroni Grill desserts at home. Enjoy this delicious chocolate peanut butter cake.
3/4 cup Unsalted butter
3/4 cup Creamy style peanut butter
2 cups Packed brown sugar
3 Eggs
2 cup Unsifted all purpose flour
1 tablespoon Baking powder
1/2 teaspoon Salt
1 cup Milk
1 teaspoon Vanilla

Peanut Butter Filling:
1 cup Cream cheese, softened
1/2 cup Creamy style peanut butter

Chocolate Glaze:
1/2 cupWater
4 tablespoons Unsalted butter
1/2 cup Cocoa
1 cup Unsifted powdered sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease and flour two 9? cake pans.
2. In a large bowl, cream butter and peanut butter until it becomes
fluffy. Mix in brown sugar. Add eggs, one at a time, mixing after
each addition.
3. In a small bowl, combine flour, baking powder and salt. Add flour
mixture to butter mixture with milk and blend. Add vanilla.
4. Pour batter into pans. Bake until cake tests done, about 45 minutes.
Cool on wire rack to room temperature before frosting the cake.
5. Spread 3/4 cup peanut butter filling over tops of each cake. Let chill.
6. Spread half of warm Chocolate Glaze over peanut butter topping
on each cake, using metal spatula dipped in hot water. The glaze will
cool as it thickens.
Peanut Butter Filling: Cream ingredients together until fluffy.
Chocolate Glaze: Place water and butter in small saucepan. Bring to
boil.Add cocoa, sugar and vanilla to water mixture. Mix until
smooth.
Makes 2 Cakes