For the Simple Syrup:

1 cup sugar
1 cup water
1 1/2 Tbs lemon zest
2 Tbs lemon juice

For the Cake:

1/2 lb. dried fruits, such as blueberries, cranberries, cherries
1/2 lb. (2 sticks) unsalted butter
1 cup plus 2 Tbs sugar
2 ounces almond paste
4 large eggs
1/2 cup Grand Marni-er or other orange flavored liquor 
2 cups all purpose flour
1 tsp. baking powder
1/8 tsp. salt
1/8 tsp. ground cinnamon 
pinch freshly ground nutmeg
1/2 cup slivered almonds toasted
1/2 cup pecans
1/2 cup walnuts
1/4 cup bourbon

Preheat oven to 350

Make a simple syrup by combining the sugar and water in a medium size heavy bottom saucepan over medium high heat.  Add the lemon zest and juice and bring to a boil, stirring to dissolve the sugar.  Boil for 2 minutes and remove from the heat.

Combine the dried fruits in a large mixing bowl  Pour the simple syrup over them toss to coat and let steep for 5 minutes.  Strain and reserve the syrup.

Cream the butter, sugar, and almond paste together in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a paddle at low speed, occasionally scraping down the sides of the bowl with a rubber spatula.  Beat until the mixture is fluffy and smooth, about 2 minutes.  Add the eggs, one at a time, mixing in between each addition on low speed and scraping down the sides of the bowl as necessary.  Add 1/4 cup of the Grand Marni-er and mix to incorporate.

Combine the flour, baking powder, salt, cinnamon and nutmeg in a medium size mixing bowl and blend well.  Add this mixture, 1/2 cup at a time to the butter mixture with the mixer on low speed, each time mixing until smooth, about 2 minutes.  Scrape down the sides of the bowl as necessary.  The batter will be thick.  

Add the warm fruit and all of the nuts a little at a time, mixing well.  Scrape down the sides of the bowl and paddle.

Lightly grease a Bundt pan with butter or non-stick baking spray.  Pour the batter into the pan and bake until golden brown and the top springs back when touched, about 45 to 50 minutes (turning the pan to ensure even browning after 30 minutes.)

Cool the cake for 20 minutes in the pan, then remove and continue to cool upside down on wire rack.

Make tiny holes with a toothpick randomly on the rounded end of the cake.  Combine the remaining simple syrup and the remaining 1/4 cup Grand Marni-er and the bourbon.  Wrap the cake in a layer of cheesecloth and pour 1/4 cup cup of the syrup over the top of each cake.  Store in a plastic zip bag for 3 or four days until the cake is slightly stale.  Sprinkle syrup over the cake once every 2 to 3 days until all of the syrup is used.  Let the cage age for up to 3 weeks before eating

 Serve with Whiskey Sauce. 

I am not a fan of Fruitcake except for this recipe.  Gram used to make them and I am not sure who ate them.  This is Bryan's recipe and it is quite good.  It is also colorful for the holidays and the sauce is excellent.
I thought I had lost this recipe and was sad because Bryan is no longer with us, but I found it in another cookbook.  How happy was I!


