1 tablespoon olive oil
1 1/2 cups onions, chopped
3 garlic cloves, minced
2 large eggs
1/2 cup milk
2 teaspoons Dijon mustard
1 teaspoon hot sauce
1/2 teaspoon marjoram
1/2 teaspoon thyme
salt & freshly ground black pepper
1 lb chuck	 (ground beef)
1/2 lb veal	 (optional. Use half pork and beef if you can't find ground veal or don't buy veal)
1/2 lb ground pork
1 1/2 cups fresh breadcrumbs
1/4 cup fresh parsley, minced
1/2 cup ketchup
1/4 cup light brown sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons cider vinegar
Directions:

1
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
2
In a skillet over moderate heat, add the oil. Heat the oil until hot, but not smoking. Add the onion and garlic and cook, stirring, until softened, about 5 minutes. Set aside and let cool.
3
In a mixing bowl, whisk the eggs, milk, mustard, and hot sauce together. Add marjoram, thyme, salt, and pepper.In a large mixing bowl, combine the meats, egg-milk mixture, bread crumbs, parsley, and the cooked onion mixture.
4
In a small bowl stir together ketchup, sugar, and vinegar. Set aside.
5
Form 1 tablespoon of the meat mixture into a small patty, add it to a small oiled skillet, and cook until no longer pink. Taste for seasoning and adjust.
6
Transfer meat mixture to an oiled loaf pan.*.
7
*NOTE: The best way to make the meatloaf is to use a baking sheet, lined with foil. Place a cooling rack on top. Cut a piece of foil to be larger than a the loaf-- and shape the meat into a loaf. Using a metal skewer, poke holes along the foil -- usually every other hole.
8
Place the shaped loaf on top of the foil. I prefer this method, as the loaf is less likely to "steam" in a loaf pan. You can also glaze all around the meatloaf, which is even better!
9
Brush meat with ketchup glaze.Bake in oven for about 45 minutes, until glaze has set.
10
Brush meat loaf with remaining glaze and bake for 15 minutes more; glaze again.
11
My oven takes 1 hour and 15 minutes to reach the desired doneness. Times do vary, so allow for that!
12
Internal temperature of loaf should be 160 degrees F.
 