
Ingredients

    Cake mix:
    1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
    2 cups sugar
    3/4 cups good unsweetened cocoa powder
    2 teaspoons baking soda
    1 teaspoon baking powder
    1 teaspoon kosher salt
    1 cup buttermilk
    1/2 cup vegetable oil
    2 extra-large eggs, at room temperature
    2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
    1 cup freshly brewed hot coffee (I use decaf)
    Butter cream mix:
    2 cups unsalted butter (4 sticks) at room temp.
    7« cups powdered sugar (or one 2lb bag)
    1 cup good quality cocoa powder
    1 teaspoon table salt
    1 tablespoon vanilla extract
    1/2 cup whole milk or heavy cream

Directions

Cake:
Sift the flour, sugar, cocoa, baking soda, baking powder, and salt into the bowl and mix until combined.
In another bowl, combine the buttermilk, oil, eggs, and vanilla.
With the mixer on low speed, slowly add the wet ingredients to the dry. With mixer still on low, add the coffee and stir just to combine, scraping the bottom of the bowl with a rubber spatula. Pour the batter into the prepared pans and bake for 35 to 40 minutes at 350, until a cake tester comes out clean.
Cool in the pans for 30 minutes, then turn them out onto a cooling rack and cool completely.
(I prepared my cakes in two 8in round cake pans then divided each layer after they had cooled to create four layers)

Butter cream:
***THIS RECIPE IS FOR A CHOCOLATE BUTTERCREAM ROSE CAKE. You may need to halve this recipe if you are not making buttercream roses!***
Place room temperature butter and vanilla into a stand mixer and beat at medium-high for about three minutes. You want it to appear lighter and fluffier.
While butter is in mixer add powdered sugar, cocoa, and salt to a bowl and mix with a whisk. (sift)
With mixer off, add in one cup of the powdered sugar and cocoa mixture. Turn mixer on to low and then slowly add in remaining powdered sugar mixture, one cup at a time.
With mixer still on low, add in milk. Turn mixer to medium high and blend for at least two minutes.
Frosting will appear very light, but it will darken as it sets. 