    Ingredients

    1 cup Arborio rice

    1 pound shrimp

    2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil

    1 large onion - finely diced

    1/2 cup dry white wine

    2 1/2 cups chicken stock

    2 tablespoons unsalted butter

    1/4 cup Parmesan cheese - grated

    2 tablespoons heavy cream

    1/4 teaspoons saffron

    How To Prepare At Home

    Prep the Ingredients

    Assemble the ingredients required for this wonderful risotto. If you are using frozen shrimp, hopefully you already defrosted them. If you haven't, check out my article on working with shrimp. It will also describe how you may want to peel and devein the shrimp.

    Finely dice the onion and have the chicken stock ready to go. You can wait to grate the Parmesan cheese until you are ready to use it or if you like, get it done now.

    Start Cooking

    Bring your chicken stock to a boiling point and have ready at stoveside. In a large skillet with a heavy bottom, heat oil over low heat and saut‚ onions until translucent. Add rice, stir to coat with oil and saut‚ with onions to toast each grain, approx. 7 minutes.

    Once toasted, add white wine slowly, stirring with a wooden spoon. ( I like to remove the pot from the heat source before adding wine.) Add saffron. Once the rice has absorbed the wine, add 1 cup chicken stock, stirring occasionally.

    Continue adding stock as the rice absorbs the liquid and the pot becomes dry, until all the stock is absorbed. Chef Lomonaco explains, "Adding liquid in stages allow grains of rice to expand more fully, adding to the risotto's creamy texture"

    This whole process should take about 30 - 40 minutes and the risotto will be a little chewy (to your liking) and should have a creamy texture.

    With 2 - 3 minutes left - and please, this will depend on you and your stove, so don't worry too much about timing - add the shrimp and cook until done. Add the butter, Parmesan and heavy cream. Stir to combine ingredients and serve immediately.

