
Crispy Skillet Gnocchi with Burst Tomatoes and Zucchini 



Prep Time: 5 minutes

Cook Time: 15 minutes

Total Time: 20 minutes


Yield: 2-4 entree servings, 6 side servings





Crispy Skillet Gnocchi with Burst Tomatoes and Zucchini is a vegetable packed, quick and simple weeknight dinner that takes advantage of all the fresh farmer's market vegetables. 

Ingredients
1 lb gnocchi (available in a vacuum sealed pouch) 
2 tbsp butter 
1 dozen small cherry tomatoes (mixed heirloom or red) 
2 small zucchini, halved then sliced 
2 tbsp olive oil 
2 small shallots (or 1 larger one), sliced 
2 garlic cloves, minced 
1/4 tsp red pepper flakes 
1/4 cup parmesan cheese, grated 
fresh parmesan cheese for topping 
basil for topping 
salt and pepper






 Make Buttery Pistachio Green Beans  
  

Instructions
1.Start by lining a baking sheet (hello, less dishes) with foil. Add the cherry tomatoes and olive oil. Sprinkle with salt. Broil until the tomatoes burst. In my oven, this takes 2-3 minutes but my broiler is pretty strong (it's scorched a million things in it's lifetime). 
2.While the tomatoes broil, slice the zucchini, mince the garlic, and thinly slice the shallots. Keep them separate. 
3.Add the remaining olive oil to a nonstick skillet. Add the zucchini. Sprinkle with 1/2 tsp salt and cook for 7 minutes or so until they're golden, soft on the inside, and crispy on the outside. 
4.In the meantime, heat another skillet to medium and melt 2 tbsp butter. Add the uncooked gnocchi to this pan. Let the gnocchi cook for about 5 minutes before stirring. Once golden on one side, flip and cook another 3-5 minutes until golden and tender. 
5.Add the shallots and garlic to the zucchini and stir to combine. Cook for 1-2 minutes until softened. 
6.Add the burst tomatoes to the pan with the zucchini. Stir to combine. Add the 1/4 tsp of red pepper flakes. 
7.Once the gnocchi are cooked, add them to the vegetables. Add the grated parmesan. Season to taste with salt and pepper. I needed just a touch more salt. 
8.Top with fresh basil and freshly shredded parmesan. Serve.
