Ristorante Masolino in Panicale, Italy, has served this recipe for years. Chef Nancy Silverton makes the dish even better by roasting lemon slices, so they?re lightly charred, before stirring them into a piquant salsa verde. The sauce is an excellent accompaniment to these crisp-skinned chicken thighs, but it?s also great with roasted fish and vegetables.

Ingredients
12 bone-in skin-on chicken thighs
24 sage leaves
16 garlic cloves?6 cut into 4 slices each, the rest gently smashed and peeled
1 stick unsalted butter
Strips of zest from 2 lemons
3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
1 tablespoon chopped thyme
1 tablespoon chopped oregano
1 tablespoon chopped parsley
1 teaspoon crushed red pepper
Kosher salt
12 fresh bay leaves 
1 lemon, cut into 1/2-inch slices and seeded
1 tablespoon plus 1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1/4 cup chopped oregano (heaping)
1/4 cup chopped mint (heaping)
2 garlic cloves, chopped
1 anchovy fillet
1/2 teaspoon drained capers
1 teaspoon kosher salt

Instructions

1.	Prepare chicken. Run your fingers under the skin of each chicken thigh to create a pocket. Stuff each pocket with 2 sage leaves, 2 slices of garlic and 1 slice of butter. Transfer stuffed thighs to a large bowl. In small bowl, stir the lemon zest strips with the smashed garlic, olive oil, chopped herbs and crushed red pepper. Pour the mixture over the chicken and turn to coat. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight. 

2.	Make the salsa verde. Preheat oven to 450ø. On baking sheet, toss lemon slices with 1 tablespoon olive oil. Spread lemon slices in an even layer & bake for 16 to 18 min, until charred on bottom. WATCH SO THEY DON'T BURN!!! Transfer to cutting board; let cool for 5 minutes. Chop slices into small pieces. 
3.	In food processor, add chopped oregano & mint with the chopped garlic, anchovy, capers and 1 teaspoon of salt and run until a smooth paste forms. Slowly drizzle in the remaining 1/2 cup of olive oil, stirring to create a thick salsa. Stir in the chopped lemon. 
4.	Heat a very large ovenproof skillet. Season chicken thighs evenly with 4 teaspoons of salt; reserve lemon zest and smashed garlic from marinade. Arrange chicken thighs skin side down in skillet and cover with another large skillet or pot weighted down with heavy cans. Lowe heat to medium. Cook chicken over medium heat until skin is golden brown and crisp, about 15 minutes. 
5.	Remove the weight and turn the chicken. Scatter the reserved lemon zest, garlic marinade and the bay leaves, among the thighs. Roast in the oven for about 30 minutes, until the chicken is very golden brown and cooked through. Discard the bay leaves. Transfer the chicken to a platter and serve with the salsa verde. 

Make Ahead: The salsa verde can be refrigerated overnight. Serve at room temperature.

