 Skillet-Roasted Lemon Chicken (adapted)
SERVES 3	 
2 teaspoons fresh thyme leaves or 1/2 t dried thyme
1 teaspoon whole fennel seeds OMIT
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
1/3 cup good olive oil
1 lemon, halved and sliced ¬ inch thick and seeds removed
1 yellow onion, halved and sliced ¬ inch thick
2 large garlic cloves, thinly sliced
1 (4-pound) chicken, backbone removed and butterflied
« cup dry white wine, such as Pinot Grigio or chicken stock with lemon juice added
Juice of 1 lemon
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees.

Place the thyme, 1/2 tablespoon salt, and 3/4 teaspoon pepper in a mini food processor and process until ground or stir in olive oil if dried herb used. . Pour the olive oil into a small glass measuring cup, stir in the herb mixture, and set aside.

Distribute the lemon slices in a 12-inch cast-iron skillet and distribute the onion and garlic on top. Place the chicken, skin side down, on top of the onion and brush with about half the oil and herb mixture. Turn the chicken skin side up, pat it dry with paper towels (very important!), and brush it all over with the rest of the oil and herb mixture.

Roast the chicken for 30 minutes. Pour the wine or stock with lemon juice added into the pan (not on the chicken!) and roast for another 10 to 15 minutes, until a meat thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the breast registers 155 to 160 degrees. Very important to reach 160 degrees or it won't be cooked thoroughly.  May take 30 minutes!

Remove the chicken from the oven, sprinkle it with the lemon juice, cover the skillet tightly with aluminum foil, and allow to rest for 10 to 15 minutes. Cut the chicken into quarters or eighths, sprinkle with salt, and serve hot with the pan juices, cooked lemon, and onion.

How to Spatchcock(Butterfly) Chicken in 2 Easy Steps
You can use a chef's knife to cut out the backbone, but I think sturdy kitchen scissors make it a lot easier. 
1. Place the chicken breast-side down. Cut along one side of the backbone. Repeat along the other side. 

2. Open the chicken and slice through the white cartilage at the tip of the breastbone to pop it open and remove.
The chicken will lay nice and flat now. Like a beautiful butterfly.

 

 

