This delicious recipe bolstered by a rich beef broth made from meaty shin bones, is a lowcountry classic. The recipe makes mote than four servings but is delicious reheated for days to come. Begin the broth at least one day before serving, then finish the soup on the second day. Okra soup is always served over steaming white rice cooked low country style so that every grain is separate. If you can't fine perfectly vine-ripened tomatoes and blemish-free okra, but canned tomatoes and cut-up frozen okra. They'll be better than inferior "fresh" products. 

1 large meaty beef shank bone, cut into 3-inch pieces
5 quarts water
1 large onion, chopped
5 cups vine-ripened tomatoes (about 5 pounds), peeled and chopped, or a 28 ounce can tomatoes plus a 14 and 1/2 ounce can high-quality tomatoes
1 bay leaf
1 fresh thyme sprig, or 1/2 tsp. dried
3 pounds fresh or frozen okra, cut into pieces
Fresh lemon juice and salt to taste
Bottled hot sauce

Place the shnak pieces in a large stockpot and cover wiht water. Bring to aboil, immmediately reduce the heat, and simmer uncovered, for about 2 hours, skimming the surface of scum frequently. When the meat is tender and falling from the bones, remove the stock the sotck from the heat and allow to cool. Remove the bones and refrigerate the broth. Pick the meat from the bones, cover the meat, cover the meat, cand refrigerate. Discard the bones. 
  The next day, remove the congealed fat from the surface of the broth, discarding all but about 2 or 3 tablespoons. Place enough of the fat in the bottom of a Dutch overn to cover the surface and melt over medium heat. Add the tomatoes and the herbs and continue to cook, stirring frequently, until most of the liquid has cooked out, about 20 minutes. Add the okra, the reserved meat, and 3 quarts of the reserved broth, and cook for another 20 minutes, until the soup is warmed through and the okra is just beginning to break down. Adjust the seasoning with lemon juice, salt, and hot sauce, then serve over steamed rice, passing the hot sauce. 
Serves 8 to 12 

Serve Okra Soup with Green Bean and Benne Salad, Cornbread, Lemon Squares for desert and Pickled Shrimp as the appetizer. Meal idea from the cookbook
"Hoppin John's Charleston, Beaufort & Savannah. Dining at home in the lowcountry. 