Makes 6 servings

It's a tradition in New Orleans to serve red beans for lunch on Mondays..

1 pound dry red kidney beans
Water to cover the beans
6 large ham hocks (3 to 4 pounds)
16 cups water, in all
2 and 1/2 cups finely chopped celery
2 cups finely chopped onions
2 cups finely chopped green bell peppers
5 bay leaves
2 teaspoons white pepper
2 teaspoons dried thyme leaves
1 and 1/2 teaspoons garlic powder 
1 and 1/2 teaspoons dried oregano leaves
1 teaspoon ground red pepper
1/2 teaspoon black pepper
1 tablespoon Tabasco sauce
1 pound andouille smoked sausage (preferred) or any other good pure smoked pork sausage such as Polish sausage (kielbasa), cut diagonally into 3/4 inch pieces
4 and 1/2 cups hot Basic Cooked Rice 

Cover the beans with water 2 inches above the beans. Let stand overnight. Drain just before using. 
   Place the ham hocks, 10 cups of the water, the celery, onions, bell peppers, bay leaves and seasonings in a 5 and 1/2 quart saucepan or large Dutch oven; stir well. Cover and bring ot a boil over high heat. Reduce heat and simmer until meat is fork tender, about 1 hour, stirring occasionally. Remove ham hocks from pan and set aside. 
   Add the drained beans and 4 cups of the water to the pan; bring to a boil, reduce heat, and simmer 30 minutes, stirring occasionally. Add the remaining 2 cups water and simmer 30 minutes, stirring oftentir in the andouille and continue simmering until the beans start breaking up about 35 minutes, scraping pan bottom fairly often.( If the beans start to scorch, do not stir. Immediately remove from heat and change to another pot without scraping any scorched beans into the mixture.) Add the ham hocks and cook and stir 10 minutes more. Serve immediately. 
   To serve, for each serving mound 3/4 cup rice in the middle of a large heated serving plate. Place a ham hock on one end of the plate and about 2 pieces of andouille on the other end. Spoon a generous 1 and 1/4 cups of the red beans around the rice. 