Grillades is one of those dishes like gumbo, in that everyone has his own recipe and uses different meats. The basic brown sauce with tomatoes in it seems to remain the same even though the meat varies.
Makes 8 main-course servings for lunch or brunch

Seasoning mix:
1 tablespoon salt
1 and 1/2 teaspoons onion powder 
1 and 1/2 teaspoons garlic powder
1 and 1/2 teaspoons ground red pepper (preferably cayenne)
1 teaspoon white pepper
1 teaspoon sweet paprika
1 teaspoon black pepper
1/2 teaspoon dry mustard
1/2 teaspoon dried thyme leaves
1/2 teaspoon gumbo file powder (optional)

1 cup chopped onions
1 cup chopped celery
1 cup chopped green bell peppers
1 and 1/2 teaspoons minced garlic
7 tablespoons vegetable oil
2 pounds baby beef,veal chops or shoulder steaks, cut in 8 equal portions
1 cup all-purpose flour, in all 
4 bay leaves
4 cups Basic Beef Stock
1 cup canned tomato sauce

Grits:
5 cups Basic Beef Stock
2 tablespoons minced onions
1 tablespoon sugar (optional)
1/4 teaspoon dried thyme leaves
1/4 teaspoon minced garlic
1 cup hominy grits

Combine the seasoning mix ingredients in a small bowl, mixing well. Combine the onions, celery, bell peppers and garlic in a medium-size bowl and set aside. 
  In a large heavy skillet heat the oil to about 350 degrees. Meanwhile, sprinkle 2 teaspoons of the seasoning mix on the meat, seasoning both sides. In a pan (loaf, cake and pie pans work well) thoroughly combine 1/2 cup of the flour with 1 teaspoon of the seasoning mix. Dredge lightly in the flour, shaking off excess. Fry the meat in the hot oil until golden brown, about 1 to 3 minutes per side. (If the drippings start to burn, change the oil.) Without draining, transfer the meat to a plate. Leave the oil in the skillet over high heat; gradually add the remaining 1/2 cup flour to the hot oil and stir constantly with a long-handled metal whisk or wooden spoon until smooth, being careful not to scorch the roux or splash it on your skin. Continue cooking and whisking constantly until roux is medium brown, about 3 minutes. Immediately add the vegetable mixture and stir with a wooden spoon until well blended. Stir in the bay leaves and 2 tablespoons of the seasoning mix (reserve the remaining mix for the grits). Continue cooking 5 minutes, stirring almost constantly. 
   Meanwhile, place 4 cups stock in a 5and 1/2-quart saucepan or large Dutch oven. Bring to a boil. Add roux mixture by spoonfuls to the boiling stock, stirring until dissolved between each addition. Add the meat and tomato sauce and bring to a boil over high heat, stirring occasionally. Reduce heat to maintain a simmer; cook until the meat is tender and flavors are married, about 30 to 40 minutes, stirring occasionally and scraping the pan bottom well. Remove from heat and discard the bay leaves. 
   Meanwhile, heat the serving plates in a 250 degree oven and make the grits; In a 2-quart saucepan combine 5 cups stock, onions, sugar (if desired), thyme, garlic and the remaining 1 tablespoon seasoning mix. Bring to a boil over high heat. Let boil about 1 and 1/2 minutes, then stir in the grits. Reduce heat to very low, cover pan, and simmer 15 minutes. Remove cover and stir well, scraping pan bottom; continue cooking uncovered until grits are tender and liquid is absorbed, about 15 to 20 minutes more, stirring occasionally and scraping pan bottom as needed. Serve immediately. 
  To serve, place 1/2 cup grits and a portion of meat on each heated serving plate; pour about 1/2 cup gravy over the meat. 

