From MMMMiami--Tempting Tropical Tastes for Home Cooks Everywhere by Carole Kotkin and Kathy Martin

The filling can be prepared in advance and refrigerated 2 days or frozen.  

1-1/2 pounds pork butt or shoulder, trimmed and cut into 3/4-inch cubes or
1-1/2 pounds bottom round beef, cut into 3/4-inch cubes
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons canola oil
1 medium onion, chopped
1 green pepper, cored, seeded, cut into 1-inch dice
1 red pepper, cored, seeded, cut into 1-inch dice
2 jalapeno peppers, seeded and sliced (wash hands well after handling peppers) 
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 cup tomato juice
1 cup canned beef broth
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1/2 teaspoon chili powder
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper
1 teaspoon salt
1 can (16 ounces) black beans, drained and rinsed
1 cup corn kernels, fresh or frozen
1 tablespoon unsalted butter, melted
1/2 cup coarsely shredded sharp Cheddar cheese

On a sheet of waxed paper, toss pork or beef cubes with flour until coated. Heat oil in a  wide shallow casserole (one that can go on the range and in the oven) or dutch oven, over medium-high heat. Add meat and saute until nicely browned, about 20 minutes. Don't crowd pan; work in batches if
necessary.  With a slotted spoon, remove meat to a bowl and pour off all but 1 tablespoon excess fat. In the remaining fat, saute onion until soft
but not brown.  Add peppers and saute until soft.  Add garlic and saute for two minutes.  Add a little tomato juice to casserole, scraping bottom and
sides of dish so that any browned bits become part of the sauce.  Return meat to casserole.  Stir in remaining tomato juice and beef broth to barely
cover ingredients.  Add cumin, chili powder, cinnamon, cayenne and salt.  Cover; simmer 1 hour, or until meat is tender. Stir in beans and corn and
simmer 10 minutes, or until heated through. Taste for seasoning and correct if necessary. Preheat oven to 400 degrees.  Arrange biscuits on top. Brush
biscuits with melted butter and scatter cheese over top.  Bake pot pie uncovered until biscuits are puffed and golden and cheese is melted and
bubbly, about 15 minutes.  Makes 4 to 6 servings. 