Here are a few recipes and ideas for making "gifts-in-a-jar"

The first part of the recipe lists the ingredients that you will actually put in the jar.  The second part of the recipe contains the directions necessary to finish it, -   copy these onto a pretty notecard and tie them to the neck of the jar with a bow to dress it up.  You could also sandwich a circle of fabric between the seal and the ring of the jar lid to give your gift a little "something extra".  You could also do as we did for our cookie gift sample and punch a small hole in one side of a mimi cookie cutter.  Feed a piece of string through it, securing with a knot to hold it and then finish by wrapping the rest of the string around the neck of the jar and tying it in place.

A rule-of-thumb to go by...if the ingredients that you want to put in your jar equal about 4 cups, it will fit in a quart-sized jar; a pint-sized jar will hold about 2 cups of intredients.

RANCH DRESSING AND DIP MIX
1 1/2 Tablespoon dried parsley
1/2 Tablespoon dried chives
1/4 Tablespoon dried tarragon
1/2 Tablespoon lemon pepper
1 Tablespoon salt
1/4 Tablespoon oregano
1/2 Tablespoon garlic powder
Combine all ingredients in a bowl.  Transfer into clean, dry jar and secure lid.

ATTACH TO JAR:
RANCH DRESSING
1/2 cup mayonnaise
1/2 cup buttermilk
1 Tablespoon Ranch Dressing and Dip Mix
In large bowl, whisk together the mayo, buttermilk and Dressing and Dip Mix.  Makes 1 cup.

----------------------------------------------------

YOU'RE SO SPECIAL COOKIES

1/2 cup brown sugar 
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 Tablespoon baking soda
1 cup chocolate chips
1 cup flour
1 1/2 cup oatmeal
Layer in a quart-sized jar and secure lid.

Attach to jar:
YOU'RE SO SPECIAL COOKIES
Dump the contents of this jar in a bowl and add the following:
1 egg
1/2 cup oleo
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Mix well and drop by teaspoonful on cookie sheet.  Bake at 350 for 10-12 minutes
----------------------------------------------------

HOT CHOCOLATE MIX
3 cups powdered milk
1/2 cup cocoa
3/4 cup sugar
Dash of salt
Sift the ingredients into a large bowl.  Transfer into a clean, dry jar and secure lid.

ATTACH TO JAR;
HOT CHOCOLATE
4 Tablespoons Hot Chocolate mix
8 oz. boiling water
Marshmallows or whipped cream
Place the Hot Chocolate mix into a mug.  Add the boiling water and stir until the mix is dissolved.  Garnish with the marshmallows or whipped cream.  Makes one serving.
