Note:  if optional vinegar and egg are added, and they should be, reduce or
eliminate cold water.

For one two-crust 8 or 9 inch pie.

2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup lard or shortening, chilled. (or 1/2 cup (4 ounces) lard or
shortening, and 4   Tablespoons butter, chilled.
1/2 cup ice water, approximately

Optional
2 teaspoons sugar
2 teaspoons vinegar
1 egg.

If blend of butter and lard or shortening is to be used, allow both to come
to room temperature before mixing them together.  The mixture must be
chilled before it is cut into the flour however.  (note:  I didn't do this
I used them both chilled right from the beginning, piecrust turned out
great  SE)

If the optional vinegar and egg are used, reduce water by half.

The volume of one large egg is about 1/4 cup, if you half the recipe for
one crust you can use 2 Tablespoons of the egg.

Into  medium bowl measure flour and salt.   Drop the fat by pieces into the
flour.   With two knives cut the fat into the flour until the mixture
resembles coarse meal, with irregular particles ranging in size from tiny
grains of rice to small peas.

Add sugar, vinegar and egg, if desired.  Pour each ingredient into the
flour mixture and stir to blend before adding the next.  (I cut everything
in and toss with the knives to blend)

Sprinkle in the water a Tablespoon at a time and stir with a fork held
lightly.  Gently toss the loose particles around the bowl to absorb
moisture.  Add water as needed to bring the particles together in a moist
(not wet) mass that holds together with no dry or crumbly places apparent.

Wrap the ball of dough in plastic wrap or foil and place in the
refrigerator to mature and chill 4 hours or longer.  THIS STEP IS IMPORTANT
FOR BEST RESULTS.

Remove the dough from the refrigerator about 1/2 hour before rolling or it
will be difficult to work.  (I leave it out close to 45 minutes on normal
days).

Prepare and roll as you would for any pie crust.  This is an outstanding
pie crust, tender and flakey and rich.