Crust:
1 pkg. (1T.) yeast
1 1/4 c. warm water
2 t. sugar
2 c. unbleached flour
1 c. whole wheat flour
1 t. salt
1 T. olive oil
cornmeal or sesame seeds

Dissolve yeast in 1/2 c. of the warm water, add the sugar, and leave it for 10 minutes.  Put dissolved yeast in a large, warm bowl with the rest of the water.  Mix the flour and the salt together and start stirring it into the liquid gradually.  Keep adding flour until the mixture is too stiff to stir.  Knead it in the bowl briefly, then add the olive oil and continue kneading until the dough is smooth and elastic, adding a little more flour if necessary.  Form the dough into a ball, brush it with oil, cover it, and leave it to rise in a warm place for 1 hour, or until it doubles in size.

Punch the dough down and divide it in half.  Put the 2 balls of dough on a large, lightly floured board and roll them out into circles.  When the dough begins to pull back, cover it with a tea towel and let it rest for 5 to 10 minutes, then roll it again.  As the circles of dough start to approach the right size, about 12 inches across, they can be lifted up and gently stretched over the back of your hands.

When the dough is about 1/4 inch thick, stop stretching it, adjust the shape as well a you can, and prepare the pans by oiling them with olive oil and sprinkling with sesame seeds or corn meal.  Put the circles of dough on the pans.

Toppings:
pizza or pasta sauce
variety of vegetables - any or all:
eggplant, green or red bell peppers, onions, mushrooms, sliced tomatoes, broccoli, capers, banana peppers, artichoke hearts, sundried tomatoes, etc.
1 lb. shredded mozzarella cheese
*sprinkling of parmesan cheese and/or feta cheese
 (if desired)

Cut/slice the desired vegetables into small, bite size pieces.  Spread the dough evenly with sauce and top with 1/2 the cheese.  Arrange vegetable pieces on top of pizzas (thickly or sparcely, however you desire).  Top with remaining cheese.

Bake in a preheated oven at 425 for 15 - 20 minutes, or until crust is crisp on the edges and bottom and the cheese is bubbling and turning golden brown.

Makes 2 small/medium pizzas