Carole Kotkin is Food Editor for Wine News Magazine, Manager of The Cooking School at Ocean Reef Club in Key Largo. She is co-author of
MMMiami?Tempting Tropical Tastes for Home Cooks Everywhere, Henry Holt Publishers. 

Ice cream desserts are ideal for summer--refreshing and cam easily be prepared ahead of time.  The strawberry sauce is great for spooning over ice cream, pound cake, pancakes, or waffles also. 

Pecan Crust:
1-1/2 cups pecan halves
3 tablespoons powdered sugar pinch of salt
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature

1 quart peach ice cream

Apricot Glaze:
3 tablespoons apricot preserves
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon sugar
1 teaspoon water

1 medium peach, peeled and thinly sliced
Mint sprigs

Strawberry Sauce:
2 pints fresh strawberries, washed
4 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons orange juice concentrate

Preheat oven to 350 degrees.  Lightly butter a 9-inch pyrex pie dish.  Place pecans, sugar and salt in the bowl of a food processor fitted with the steel blade and finely chop pecans. 
Stir in butter using fork.  Press mixture evenly into prepared pan.  Bake until light brown, about 8 minutes.  Cool completely on rack and then freeze for 10 minutes or longer.  Soften ice cream
in refrigerator until spreadable.  Smooth into crust, mounding in the center.  Wrap well and freeze until firm, about 2 hours or as
long as 1 week. To prepare glaze, melt preserves with lemon juice, sugar and water in heavy small saucepan over low heat, stirring frequently.
Strain mixture and set aside. Reserve 6 to 12
(depending on size) of the nicest berries to be used as garnish.  Hull the remaining berries, add the sugar and orange juice
concentrate and puree them in a processor fitted with a steel chopping blade or in a blender. Refrigerate until needed. On serving day arrange peach slices in flower pattern in center of
pie.  Arrange strawberries around edge. Brush fruit with glaze.  Garnish with mint. Let soften in refrigerator 10 minutes before
serving.  Place a slice of pie on individual dessert plates and spoon strawberry sauce beside it.
Serves 6 to 8.




