Blackout Cake

CAKE:
1/2 cup unsweetened Dutch process cocoa powder 
2 tablespoons boiling water 
2 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped 
3/4 cup milk 
1 cup unsalted butter, softened slightly 
2 cups sugar 
4 large eggs, separated 
2 teaspoons vanilla extract 
2 cups all-purpose flour 
1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 teaspoon baking soda 
1 teaspoon salt 

FILLING:
1 tablespoon plus 1-3/4 tsp unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder 2 cups boiling water 
3/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon plus 1/2 tsp sugar 
1 ounce bittersweet chocolate, chopped 2 tablespoons cornstarch dissolved in: 1 tablespoon cold water 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter 

FROSTING:
12 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped 12 tablespoons unsalted butter 
1/2 cup hot water 
1 tablespoon light corn syrup 
1 tablespoon vanilla extract 

Preheat the oven to 375øF. Butter and lightly flour two 8-inch round cake pans. 
Make the cake: Place the cocoa in a small bowl and whisk in the boiling water to form a paste. Combine the chocolate and milk in a small saucepan over medium heat. Stir frequently until the chocolate melts, about 3 minutes. Remove from the heat. Whisk a small amount of the hot chocolate milk into the cocoa paste to warm it. Whisk the cocoa mixture into the milk mixture.
Return the pan to medium heat and stir for 1 minute. Remove and set aside to cool until tepid. In the bowl of a mixer, cream the butter and sugar together. Beat in the egg yolks, one at a time, and add the vanilla. Slowly stir in the chocolate mixture. Combine the flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Using a spatula or a wooden spoon, slowly add the flour mixture to the chocolate mixture. Fold in until just mixed.
In another bowl, whisk the egg whites until soft peaks form. Using a rubber spatula, gently fold the egg whites into the batter. Divide the batter between the prepared pans. Bake until a toothpick inserted in the center of a cake comes out clean, 45 minutes. Cool the cakes in the pans on a rack for 15 minutes. Gently remove the cakes from the pans and continue to cool.
While the cake is baking, make the filling: 
Combine the cocoa and boiling water in a small saucepan over low heat. Stir in the sugar and chocolate. Add the dissolved cornstarch paste and salt to the pan and bring to a boil, stirring constantly. Boil for 1 minute. Remove the pan from the heat and whisk in the vanilla and butter. Transfer the mixture to a bowl, cover, and refrigerate until cool. Please note that these ingredients make a very runny filling that pleased the 12 devout Ebingerists who taste-tested different versions of this cake. Those who desire a less syrupy consistency can stir in an additional 1 to 2 tablespoons cornstarch.
Make the frosting: 
Melt the chocolate in a double boiler over hot, not simmering, water, stirring until smooth. Remove the top of the double boiler from the heat and whisk in the butter, 1 tablespoon at a time. Return the top to the heat, if necessary, to melt the butter. Whisk in the hot water all at once and whisk until smooth. Whisk in the corn syrup and vanilla. Cover and refrigerate for up to 15 minutes prior to using.
Assemble the cake: Use a sharp serrated knife to slice each layer horizontally in half to form 4 layers. Set 1 layer aside. Place 1 layer on a cake round or plate. Generously swath the layer with one-third of the filling. Add the second layer and repeat. Set the third layer on top. Quickly apply a layer of frosting to the top and the sides of the cake. Refrigerate for 10 minutes. Meanwhile, crumble the remaining cake layer. Apply the remaining frosting to the cake. Sprinkle it liberally with cake crumbs. Serve the cake within 24 hours. Store in a cool place.