CHOCOLATE WALNUT RUGELACH

Cream cheese dough
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, softened
4 ounces cream cheese, softened
1/4 teaspoon salt
1-1/2 cups all-purpose flour

Filling
3/4 cup light brown sugar
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
2/3 cup finely chopped walnut pieces (about 2-1/2 ounces)
1/2 cup semisweet mini-chocolate chips, or 6 ounces semisweet chocolate cut into 1/4-inch pieces

To make the dough: In a mixing bowl, beat together the butter and cream cheese at medium speed until smooth, light and fluffy and the mixture looks like buttercream. Beat in the salt. Sift the flour over the butter mixture, then fold it in. 
Scrape the dough onto a lightly floured work surface and divide it into three equal pieces. Form each third into a circle about 5 inches in diameter. Wrap each in plastic wrap and chill until firm, about 1 hour. 
At baking time, set the oven racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven and preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Line two baking sheets or jelly roll pans with parchment paper or foil; set aside. 

To prepare the filling: In a medium bowl, combine the filling ingredients. 
Working with one piece of dough at a time, remove it from the refrigerator, unwrap it and place it on a lightly floured work surface. Lightly sprinkle the dough with flour, then roll into about a 10-inch circle. Cut the circle into 12 equal wedges. 
Using a pastry brush, paint the dough wedges with water and scatter each piece evenly with the filling. Use about one-third of the filling for each 12 wedges. 
Starting from the wide edges (opposite of the point), roll up the wedges. Make sure to roll the pastry tight enough so that filling doesn't fall out. Place the rugelach on the prepared pans. Repeat with the remaining dough and filling. 
Bake the rugelach for about 30 minutes or until they are light golden and firm. Remove from the oven and cool them in the pans on racks. Serve immediately or store in a tin or airtight container. 
Makes about 36 small pastries; 

Note: To make dough in a food processor fitted with the steel blade, place the butter and cream cheese in the work bowl and pulse 10 or 12 times to mix evenly, scraping down the sides several times with a spatula. Add the salt and flour and pulse to form a soft dough.
