This tasty, Moroccan-inspired trout dish is quick and simple to prepare. The flavorful mixture of spiced oil and red bell pepper acts both as a stuffing and a sauce, seasoning the fish inside 
and out. For easiest eating, have the trout butterflied or boned at the market. If you're using fish with bones, allow 20 minutes for it to cook.
 
For quick cooking, use foil rather than parchment paper to wrap the fish, because it's easier to cut and fold and more widely available. Generally these wrapped fish are baked until their cases puff. To be certain, you can check the largest fish to see 
if it's done before removing them all from the oven. Serve the trout in their foil cases on large plates. At the table cut open each package with scissors and pull it out from under the fish.
 
Makes 4 servings
 
3 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil or use vegetable oil 
2 teaspoons paprika 
4 cloves garlic large 
1 teaspoon hot pepper minced or a pinch of cayenne pepper 
1/4 cup cilantro chopped 
1/2 red bell pepper diced small 
4 whole trout , butterflied, heads removed, 270 to 350 grams each 
salt and freshly ground pepper 
 
Preheat oven to 220. 
Mix oil with paprika in a small bowl. Add garlic, chilies, and cilantro and mix well. Stir in diced red pepper. If trout still have fins, snip them with sturdy scissors and trim tails straight. Rinse fish inside and out and pat dry.
 
Put trout skin side down on a tray. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Spoon about half the pepper garlic mixture evenly over trout. Fold each trout in half, reforming it. Set four 30 cm squares of foil on work surface with their shiny side down and lightly oil their centers. Set each trout on a foil square, near the square's center. 

Sprinkle fish with salt and pepper, then spoon remaining pepper garlic mixture over them. Fold each foil piece in half to enclose fish, then fold and roll edges together to seal package. Set wrapped trout in a large roasting pan or on a baking sheet. 

Bake trout about 15 minutes or until foil puffs. If you want to check whether fish is done, open one package and insert a cake tester or thin skewer into thickest part of fish; skewer should come out hot to the touch. Or check by inserting the point of a thin knife into thickest part of fish; flesh should be opaque, not translucent. Serve trout 
hot in their packages. 
 
By Fay Levy. Printed in Jerusalem Post
 
 


---------------------------------------------------------
From Weight Watchers? Light and Tasty? Deluxe ? 1997 The Learning Company, Inc.  Recipes ? Weight Watchers International, Inc., owner of the registered trademark.  All Rights reserved.