
This creme caramel has it all: rich, tender creaminess, with a mellow flavor and a complex, honey-colored caramel sauce. Best of all, it's simple. 

CLASSIC CREME CARAMEL 

Serves 8

While you can make one large creme caramel, we find that custards baked in individual ramekins cook faster, are more evenly textured, and unmold more easily. You can vary the amount of sugar in the custard to suit your taste. Most tasters preferred the full 2/3 cup, but you can reduce that amount to as little as 1/2 cup to create a greater contrast between the custard and the sweetness of the caramel. Cook the caramel in a pan with a light-colored interior, since a dark surface makes it difficult to judge the color of the syrup.

Caramel 
1 cup sugar 
1/3 cup water
2 tablespoons corn syrup
1/4 teaspoon juice from 1 lemon

Custard
1 1/2 cups whole milk
1 1/2 cups light cream
3 large eggs
2 large egg yolks
2/3 cup sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Pinch salt

1. For the caramel: In a medium nonreactive saucepan and without stirring, bring sugar, water, corn syrup, and lemon juice to simmer over medium-high heat, wiping sides of pan with wet cloth to remove any sugar crystals that might cause syrup to turn grainy. Continue to cook until syrup turns from clear to golden, swirling pan gently to ensure even browning, about 8 minutes. Continue to cook, swirling pan gently and constantly, until large, slow bubbles on mixture's surface turn honey-caramel in color, 4 to 5 minutes longer. Remove pan immediately from heat and, working quickly but carefully (the caramel will burn if it touches your skin), pour a portion of the caramel into each of 8 ungreased 5- or 6-ounce ovenproof ramekins. Allow caramel to cool and harden, about 15 minutes. (Can be covered with plastic wrap and refrigerated for up to 2 days; return to room temperature before adding custard.)

2. For the custard: Adjust oven rack to center position and heat oven to 350 degrees. Heat milk and cream, stirring occasionally, in medium saucepan over medium heat until steam appears and/or an instant-read thermometer held in the liquid registers 160 degrees, 6 to 8 minutes; remove from heat. Meanwhile, gently whisk eggs, yolks, and sugar in large bowl until just combined. Off heat, gently whisk warm milk mixture, vanilla, and salt into egg mixture until just combined but not at all foamy. Strain mixture through fine-mesh sieve into large measuring cup or container with pouring spout; set aside.

3. Bring 2 quarts water to boil in kettle. Meanwhile, fold dish towel to fit bottom of large baking dish or roasting pan and position in pan. Divide reserved custard mixture among ramekins; place filled ramekins on towel in pan (making sure they do not touch) and set pan on oven rack. Fill pan with boiling water to reach halfway up ramekins; cover entire pan loosely with aluminum foil so steam can escape. Bake until a paring knife inserted halfway between center and edge of custards comes out clean, 35 to 40 minutes. Transfer custards to wire rack; cool to room temperature. (Can be covered with plastic wrap and refrigerated up to 2 days.) 

4. To unmold, slide a paring knife around outer edge of custard in mold, pressing knife against side of dish. Hold serving plate over top of ramekin and invert; set plate on work surface and shake ramekin gently to release custard. Serve immediately.

For one large creme caramel: Follow recipe for Classic Creme Caramel, pouring caramel and custard into 1 1/2-quart straight-sided souffle dish rather than individual ramekins. Fill roasting pan with boiling water to reach halfway up sides of souffle dish; increase baking time to 70 to 75 minutes, or until an instant-read thermometer inserted between the center and perimeter of the mold registers 175 degrees.

ESPRESSO CREME CARAMEL

Espresso beans ground in a coffee grinder will be too fine and give the custard too strong a coffee flavor. Instead, crush the beans lightly with the bottom of a heavy saucepan.

Follow recipe for Classic Creme Caramel, heating 1/2 cup lightly crushed espresso coffee beans with milk and cream mixture until steam appears and/or an instant-read thermometer held in the liquid registers 160 degrees, 6 to 8 minutes. Off heat, cover and steep until coffee flavor has infused milk and cream, about 15 minutes. Strain out beans and continue with recipe, reducing vanilla extract to 1 teaspoon.