Cajun cooking and culture really begins in Acadia, the name given to the Canadian colony now known as Nova Scotia, when the French settled there in 1604. In 1755, after a long period in which ownership of the colony continually passed between the British and the French, the Acadians were unceremoniously deported. Some returned to France, others moved deeper into the Canadian territories, but a few laid claim to lands around New Orleans, which was just then being settled, under Spanish rule. 

The cuisine that we?ve come to identify as Cajun results from a blend of all the cultures that shared the region: African, French, Spanish, and Native American. The most popular Cajun dish is easily gumbo, a sort of stew with different meats?which may include chicken, alligator, sausage, oysters, or crawfish?that is traditionally served over rice. Although there seem to be as many variations on the recipe as there are people who cook it, all gumbos have at least one thing in common: the use of roux as a foundation that imparts color and flavor. Roux is a mixture of flour and fat that is cooked until the color deepens from an off-white to a thick chocolatey tint. Although the roux does help thicken the gumbo, many people use ground sassafras, or fil‚, to make their gumbo more dense. 

This recipe is brought to us by Louisiana congressman Billy Tauzin, who visits the Westport studio to demonstrate how a proper gumbo is assembled. His recipe calls for chicken and andouille sausage, a spicy, smoky pork sausage that is often used in gumbo recipes.   
 
ANDOUILLE AND CHICKEN GUMBO
Serves 10 to 12 
 
2 pounds andouille or smoked sausage, 
sliced 1/4 inch thick
1 four- to six-pound chicken, skinned (except wings) and cut into 14 pieces
Coarse salt and freshly ground black pepper
1/2 cup vegetable oil
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter
1 large onion, cut into 1/4-inch dice (about 3 cups) 
2 medium green bell peppers, seeded, deveined and cut into 1/4-inch dice (about 2 cups) 
3 medium ribs celery, cut into 1/4-inch dice (about 1 cup)
12 medium cloves garlic, pur‚ed (about 1/4 cup) 
1 small bunch flat-leaf parsley, leaves and stems minced and reserved separately
1/4 cup Worcestershire sauce, preferably Lea & Perrins 
2 medium scallions, white and most of green parts, thinly sliced (about 1/2 cup)
Cooked white rice, for serving
Fil‚ powder, optional  
 
 1. Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Add sausage, and return to a boil. Remove sausage, and drain, reserving water. 

2. Season chicken with salt and pepper. Heat oil in a large, heavy-bottomed stockpot over medium-high heat. Add chicken in batches, and cook until browned; set aside. Sprinkle flour over oil, add 2 tablespoons butter, and cook over medium-high heat, stirring constantly, until dark brown, about 10 minutes. Do not let the roux burn; if it does overcook, discard it and start over with fresh oil, butter, and flour. Remove from heat. Cool roux slightly. Using a paper towel, remove excess oil from top of roux by laying it flat across the top. Return pot to heat. Add 6 tablespoons butter, stirring until melted. Add onions, and cook until translucent and very tender, about 10 minutes. Add peppers, celery, garlic, and parsley stems. Cook, stirring frequently until vegetables are tender, about 10 minutes more. While whisking, slowly add 8 cups hot water. Add chicken and sausage, and bring to a boil. Reduce heat, and simmer for 30 minutes. 

3. Skim fat from the top of the reserved pot of sausage boiling water. Add 4 cups skimmed water, Worcestershire sauce, salt, and pepper to chicken mixture. Cover, and cook over low heat until chicken is tender, about 1 hour. Just before serving, add the scallions and parsley leaves. Taste and adjust for seasoning. Serve over white rice. Sprinkle gumbo with fil‚, if desired. 

 
