                                 Serves 6

                                  Try this delicious dessert compliments of the New England Culinary
                                  Institute. Present this luscious, sweet treat by layering the Apple Butter,
                                  Cheddar Bread Pudding and top it off with the Dark Beer Carmel
                                  Sauce. Serve warm. Enjoy!

                                  Apple Butter 

                                       6 Granny Smith apples 
                                       1 Tablespoon unsalted butter 
                                       1 1/2 tsp. Cinnamon 
                                       1/2 tsp. Nutmeg 

                                    1.Peel, seed, and core the apples. Cut them into quarters. 
                                    2.Combine all the ingredients in a 2" deep 9"x9" pan. 
                                    3.Cover with aluminum foil and bake for 30 min. or until tender. 
                                    4.Puree the apple mixture in the food processor. 
                                    5.Reserve the apple butter. 

                                  Cheddar Bread Pudding

                                       1 Loaf Brioche or Challah Bread (or other rich soft bread) 

                                  For Custard:

                                       6 Eggs 
                                       1 pint Heavy Cream 
                                       1 pint Whole Milk 
                                       1/2 Cup Sugar 
                                       1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract 
                                       2 cups Sharp Cheddar Cheese 

                                  Directions: 

                                       Slice the bread into 1/2 inch slices and set aside to dry out for 2
                                       hours 

                                       Preheat oven to 300 degrees 
                                       Whisk together the eggs, cream, milk, sugar, and vanilla 
                                       In a buttered 9X9 pan, place a layer of bread, cutting to fit as
                                       need be 
                                       Evenly cover the bread with the cheese 
                                       Place another layer of bread over the cheese 
                                       Poor custard mixture over the bread, allowing it to sink in                                        evenly 
                                       Bake in the oven for 30 minutes or until the custard is set and the
                                       top is golden brown 

                                  Dark Beer Caramel Sauce 

                                       1 Qt Dark Beer, any style 
                                       2 cups granulated sugar 

                                    1.Reduce the stout beer in a saucepot until two cups remain. 
                                    2.In a saut‚ pan heat the sugar over medium heat until a dark
                                       honey color. 
                                    3.Add in the reduced stout off the heat and stir to combine the
                                       two. 
                                    4.Pour into a metal pan and let cool. 

