EQUIPMENT: 
A digital meat thermometer with a probe is an investment (as much as $35), but it takes the guesswork out of roasting meat, especially a small tenderloin, which does not take well to overcooking. Before you put the meat in the oven, insert the probe into the center. Then connect the wire that attaches to the probe to the thermometer, which sits on top of your oven. You can watch the temperature of the meat without having to open the oven and lose heat. Instant-read thermometers, right, are less expensive (about $10) but provide more approximate readings. When roasting a small tender piece of meat for a short time, a precise reading is extremely important.

(4 servings) 

For the mushroom sauce: 
1 pound white button mushrooms 
2 tablespoons canola oil 
1 tablespoon finely chopped shallots or garlic 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste 
1 plum (Roma) tomato, peeled, seeded and finely diced 
1/3 cup (about 2 ounces) chopped pine nuts, walnuts or pecans, toasted* (optional) 
1 tablespoon chopped parsley 
1/3 cup dry sherry, dry white wine or vermouth 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter (optional) 

For the pork: 
2 pork tenderloins (about 2 pounds total), trimmed and halved crosswise 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste 
1 tablespoon canola oil 

Clean the mushrooms (brush away any loose dirt and, if necessary, dab them with a damp towel to remove any remaining dirt). Do not rinse or soak the mushrooms. Trim and discard the tough bottoms of the mushroom stems but keep any part of the stem that is still tender. Cut the mushrooms into wedges.

CUTTING THE MUSHROOMS 
Cut the mushrooms into wedges of equal size; cut small mushrooms into quarters, larger ones into sixths. 

Have a baking sheet or platter ready. Heat a large skillet over high heat for 2 or 3 minutes. Add a couple of mushrooms to the skillet. The mushrooms should immediately sizzle; if this does not occur, heat the skillet for another minute. Add the mushrooms to the skillet (do not crowd; may have to cook in batches). Drizzle the mushrooms with the oil. (If you add the oil first, the mushrooms will soak up the oil and lose their texture.) Cook, shaking the pan occasionally to keep the mushrooms from sticking, until golden brown, about 3 minutes. If the mushrooms render liquid, the pan is not hot enough -- the heat is too low or the pan is too crowded.

Add the shallot or garlic and cook until it becomes transparent, about 1 minute. Remove the skillet from the heat; season the mushrooms with salt and pepper to taste. (If you add the salt too soon, the mushrooms will render their liquid and lose their texture.) 

Immediately transfer the mushrooms to the baking sheet or platter to keep them from overcooking and set aside. Set the skillet aside; do not wash it.

For the pork: Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Using a sharp knife, trim the tenderloins.

TRIMMING THE PORK 
Remove and discard the whitish-silver skin and any visible fat. Remove the flat, narrow tip of meat from each end of the tenderloin; reserve it for another use, such as a stir-fry. 

Cut the two tenderloins in half across the middle. Ideally, you should have 4 pieces of meat of equal size that will fit in an ovenproof skillet in which they are neither crowded nor have too much space around them. Season the tenderloins with salt and pepper to taste.

Heat the ovenproof skillet over medium-high heat for 2 to 3 minutes. Add the oil. If the oil smokes or burns, the heat is too high. Using tongs, carefully add the pork to the skillet. Sear the meat, untouched, for 2 minutes.

Turn the meat and sear on remaining three sides until brown, about 2 minutes per side.

SEARING THE PORK 
Put the meat in the hot oil in the pan and don't touch it for 2 minutes. If you move the meat before this time, you will destroy the crust that you want to achieve with the searing process. Think of these tenderloins as 4-sided (unlike a steak, which is 2-sided). You can prop the pieces of meat against each other to sear the long narrow sides. Use tongs to turn. 

Transfer the tenderloin to the preheated oven and roast for 8 to 12 minutes. A meat thermometer inserted in the middle of the tenderloin should register 155 degrees. Transfer the 4 tenderloins to a wire rack and place a platter underneath to catch the juices. Set the skillet aside; do not wash it.

Let the pork rest, uncovered, for one-third of its roasting time before you slice it. (The meat will continue to cook; its inner temperature should rise to 160 degrees.)

To finish the sauce and pork, have ready the tomato, nuts, if using, and parsley.

Add the sherry, wine or vermouth to the skillet in which the pork was roasted. (Remember: The handle of this pan will still be very hot.) Place the skillet over medium heat and cook, using a wooden spoon to scrape up any meat and dissolve any juices stuck to the pan (this is called deglazing), for 2 minutes. Pour the wine mixture into the skillet in which the mushrooms were cooked and repeat the deglazing process, cooking for 1 minute.

Return the mushrooms to the skillet and add the tomato and toasted nuts and heat for about 1 minute. Remove the pan from the heat. Add the butter, if using, and stir until incorporated into the sauce. Taste and correct the seasoning accordingly, adding more salt and pepper if necessary.

Slice the tenderloins 1/2 inch thick. Add the juice that has collected from the meat to the mushroom sauce.

To serve, spoon some of the mushroom sauce in the center of each dinner plate and arrange the meat on top of the sauce or fan the slices of meat around the sauce. Sprinkle with the parsley. Serve immediately.

