Raspberry and White Chocolate filled warm mini Chocolate Cakes 

FOR THE CAKE:
250g. butter 
1 teaspoon instant coffee granules 
1 1/2 cups hot water 
200g. cooking chocolate 
2 cups castor sugar 
1 1/2 cups self raising flour 
1/4 cup Dutch cocoa 
2 eggs 
2 teaspoons vanilla 
80g. white chocolate, chopped finely 
100g. raspberries 

FOR THE TOPPING: 
1 cup quality chocolate 
1 cup cream 
2 tablespoons Kahlua coffee liquour 

METHOD
In a small saucepan, melt the butter, coffee granules and hot water together until smooth then remove from the heat. 

Add the cooking chocolate and castor sugar and stir thoroughly until the chocolate has dissolved. 

Sift together the flour and cocoa then add to the liquid chocolate mixture and mix well. 

Whisk the eggs and vanilla then add to the chocolate mixture. 

Prepare 10-12 muffin cups (or 2 trays of 6 cups each) by lightly buttering them then dusting lightly with flour. Tip out the excess. 

Place 2 tablespoons of batter to into each of the muffin cups then add a spoonful of white chocolate and some raspberries to the centre of each muffin cup. Divide the remaining chocolate batter between the muffin cups and tap gently to settle the mixture. 

Bake at 150c. for 20 minutes or until firm on top when touched. When baked, remove the cake from the oven and allow to cool in the tin for 5 minutes then carefully loosen each little cake from the tin. Turn the muffin tray upside down on a flat tray. 

Meanwhile, make the topping heat the cream until boiling then pour over the chocolate pieces that have been broken up and placed in a heatproof bowl. Allow the cream and chocolate to sit for 10 minutes then gently but thoroughly stir the mixture. Add the schnapps and stir again until smooth. 

To serve, drizzle the chocolate sauce over the plate then carefully place each cake in the centre of the plates. Add some thick cream or vanilla bean ice-cream and serve. 

[serves 10] 

If raspberries are not in season, use chopped dried apricots or fresh orange segments (drain well) and substitute Grand Marnier or Cointreau for the coffee liquor. 

