1 Tbs. unsalted butter
1/2 lb. baguette, crust removed, bread cut into 1/2 inch dice (1 cup)
1 large egg
10 anchovy fillets
2 Tbs. fresh lemon juice
1 Tbs. red wine vinegar
1 small garlic clove
1 Tbs. plus 1 tsp. Dijon mustard
1 Tbs. Worcestershire sauce
1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil
Salt and freshly ground pepper
1/4 red onion, coarsely chopped (1/4 cup)
2 Tbs. capers, drained
2 Tbs. coarsely chopped flat leaf parsley
1 Tbs. prepared horseradish
3/4 tsp. hot sauce
1 lb. ground leat top round or sirloin
2 tsp. canola oil
1/2 lb. romaine lettuce, torn into bit size pieces 

Melt butter in a large skillet.  When the foam subsides, add the diced baguette in an even layer.  Cook over moderate heat until browned on the bottom, about 3 minutes.  Stir and cook until evely browned and crisp.  about 2 minutes longer.  Transfer to a plate.

Cook the egg in boiling water for 2 1/2 minutes; drain, then scoop the egg out of the shell into a blender.  Add 6 of the anchovies, the lemon juice, vinegar, garlic, 1 tsp. of mustard and 1 tsp. of the Worcestershire sauce.  Slowly add the olive oil and blend at medium low speed until it is incorporated and the mixture is creamy.  Pour the dressing into a small bowl andseason with salt and pepper.

In a food processor, finely chop the 4 remaining anchovies with the onion, capers, parsley and horseradish.  Transfer to a large mixing bowl.  Add the remaining 1 Tbs. of mustard, 2 tsp. of Worcestershire sauce, the hot sauce and ground beef and mix well.  Form the meat into 12 patties and season them with salt and peper.

Heat 1 tsp. of the canola oil in a large, heavy skillet.  Add 6 of the burgers and cook over high heat for amout 1 minute on each side for rate, and about 30 seconds longer on each side for medium rate.  Transfer to a plate.  Repeat with the remaining 1 tsp. of canola oil and 6 burgers.

In a large bowl, combine the romaine lettuce with 1/2 cup of the dressing and the croutons and toss to coat.  Mound the salad on plates and set 3 burgers on each salad.  Drizzle the remaining dressing over the salads and serve.

Serves 4

