                               Pasta, Seafood and Eggs: 
                Northwest Salmon Cakes with Mustard
                                          Sauce 

                            from From Portland's Palate... 
                           A Collection of Recipes from the City of Roses


           INGREDIENTS: 

                7 slices white bread, broken into pieces 
                1 teaspoon dried minced onion, softened in 1/2 teaspoon water 
                1 teaspoon dried thyme 
                1/2 teaspoon salt 
                1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 
                3 large shallots 
                2/3 cup freshly-grated Parmesan cheese 
                1 egg 
                1 tablespoon mayonnaise 
                1 teaspoon Dijon mustard 
                1 teaspoon freshly-squeezed lemon juice 
                1-1/2 cups salmon (10 ounces), cooked and coarsely flaked 
                Vegetable oil (for frying)

           INGREDIENTS FOR MUSTARD SAUCE: 

                1/4 cup fresh parsley, loosely packed 
                1 small garlic clove 
                1 small shallot 
                1/2 small jalape¤o pepper, seeded 
                1 egg yolk 
                8 tablespoons olive oil 
                1 teaspoon Dijon mustard 
                2 tablespoons prepared mild horseradish 
                1/8 teaspoon granulated sugar 
                1/8 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 
                Dash of salt

           TO PREPARE: 

           In a food processor, combine bread, onion, thyme, salt and cayenne.  Process to fine
           crumbs, about 1 to 2 minutes, and transfer to shallow pie plate. 

           With processor running, drop shallots through feed tube and mince.  Add cheese and
           process until minced. 

           Add 1-1/2 cups bread crumb mixture, egg, mayonnaise, mustard and lemon juice and
           blend, pulsing approximately 3 to 4 times. 

           Add salmon and blend just until combined, pulsing briefly; do not overprocess.  (Can
           be prepared 1 day ahead.  Cover salmon mixture and chill.  Cover remaining bread
           crumb mixture separately and keep at room temperature.) 

           Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 250 degrees.  Line baking sheet with
           several layers of paper towels. 

           Shape salmon mixture into twelve 1-inch thick patties, using about 2-1/2 tablespoons
           for each.  Dredge in remaining bread crumb mixture to coat thoroughly. 

           Heat 1/4-inch oil in a large, heavy skillet over medium heat.  Add several patties and
           cook until crisp and golden, about 1 minute per side. 

           Gently transfer to prepared sheet; keep warm in oven. 

           Cook remainder, adding more oil if necessary.  Serve immediately, accompanied by
           Mustard Sauce. 

           TO PREPARE MUSTARD SAUCE: 

           In a food processor, add parsley and with machine running, drop garlic, shallot and
           jalape¤o pepper through feed tube and mince. 

           Add egg yolk, 2 tablespoons oil and mustard.  Process until slightly thickened, about
           20 seconds. 

           With machine running, slowly drizzle remaining oil through feed tube in a thin steady
           stream. 

           Add horseradish, sugar, Worcestershire and salt and blend 10 seconds.  Adjust
           seasonings.  This makes 3/4 cup of sauce. 

           SERVES 4 to 6 SERVINGS; 3/4 CUP SAUCE 
