Fresh Marinara Sauces


CHUNKY MARINARA SAUCE

      1 c  Diced red onion
      1 c  Diced celery
      1 c  Diced zucchini
      1 c  Diced mushrooms
      4 c  Peeled, diced tomatos (about 8 medium)
      1 c  Tomato juice
      2 tb Tomato paste
      2 tb Chopped fresh basil
      1 tb Chopped fresh oregano
      1 ts Minced garlic

Dice onion, celery, zucchini, and mushrooms into 1/2" chunks. Saute in 
basalmic vinegar, about 5 minutes. Add tomatos; blend in tomato juice, 
tomato paste, herbs, and garlic. Simmer for 20 minutes, or until
sauce is reduced by 1/3. Serve over pasta.

From:    "Jim Bakker"  Submitted By Donna Webster.
    

- - - - - - - - - -


Italian Marinara Sauce 

    1/4 c  Extra-virgin olive oil
      2 sm Garlic cloves, minced OR Crushed and peeled*
  2 1/2 lb Plum tomatoes, peeled, seeded and finely chopped OR 
              one 35-oz. can and one 14-oz. can of Italian plum 
tomatoes, lightly drained                and finely chopped
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      2 tb Shredded fresh basil

In a medium nonreactive skillet, heat the oil over moderately low heat.
Add the garlic and cook, stirring, until golden, about 4 minutes. Discard
the garlic if desired. Add the tomatoes, salt and pepper. Cook, stirring
occasionally, until thickened, about 30 minutes. Soft bits of tomato will
remain, and the sauce should be thick enough to hold its shape on a spoon.

(The sauce can be made ahead and kept covered in the refrigerator for up to
4 days or frozen for up to 3 months.) Stir in the basil just before serving. 

*Crushed, peeled garlic cloves can be discarded after browning
for a very subtle flavor or left in and discarded at the end of cooking for
a slightly more emphatic garlic taste. More often than not I used minced
garlic and leave it in.  This gives the sauce a strong garlic flavor. 

NOTE:
Many southern Italians refer to a quick tomato sauce as "marinara" because
it could be made at a moment's notice by a fisherman's wife upon her
husband's return.  Serve over breaded or fried foods or mixed into baked
pasta dishes or spaghetti, it is the most common southern Italian tomato
sauce.  I like to make a simple marinara, which I can later adjust by
adding sauteed onions, other fresh herbs, such as oregano, parsley,
marjoram or rosemary, or by adding hot peppers. 

Food and Wine, August, 1990
    
    
- - - - - - - - - -


MAMA'S MARINARA SAUCE

      4 tb Olive oil
      2    28 oz cans of tomatoes or
      1    6 oz can tomato paste
      1    Pepper to taste
      5    Garlic cloves, minced
      5 lb Fresh tomatoes
     10    Fresh basil leaves
      1    Grated cheese to taste

In a deep 10" frying pan, heat the olive oil and gently saute the
garlic. Add tomatoes, tomato paste. Put on medium heat for 20-30
minutes, stirring occasionally. Tear basil leaves into small pieces
and sprinkle on top after adding to passta. Add pepper and grated
cheese to taste. 

Alternative: Add 1 medium onion, finely chopped, and
saute the onion with the garlic until limp. Note: If fresh tomatoes
are used, put them in a pot of boilng water for about 10 seconds
until the skin can be easily peeled off. Discard the skin. Cut
tomatoes into pieces and add to frying pan mixture. Add tomato paste.
    