The Recipe

2 cups uncooked white rice
1 - 28oz can of diced, peeled tomatoes with juice
2/3 cup water
1 onion, diced
1 celery stalk, diced
1 carrot, diced
1 lb ground round or ground turkey
2 Tbs olive oil
1 bay leaf
1/4 tsp ground pepper
1/2 tsp basil, crushed
4 - firm bananas (not plantains and not ripe)
4 eggs

Brown the ground meat in a skillet until crumbly. In a large pot, saute the onions in the oil
until transparent. Add the tomatoes (and juice), the meat, the celery, carrots and water.
Bring to a boil and reduce heat to a simmer. Add the pepper, bay leaf and basil. Simmer
covered for 45 minutes, stirring occasionally. Then simmer uncovered for an additional 15
minutes to reduce the sauce slightly. You may add salt to taste. 

When the sauce has been simmering for 30 minutes, cook the rice separately. When done,
you want the rice to be fluffy - not sticky. 

About 10 minutes before the meat sauce is cooked, peel the bananas and slice lengthwise.
Then cut each piece in half (each banana yields 4 pieces). Fry the bananas under low heat in
a skillet with a little butter. Allow about 2-3 minutes per side or until lightly browned. Place
in the oven to keep warm.

Fry the eggs separately in a little butter and place in the oven to keep warm.

                              The Presentation

Put a mound of rice in the center of a heated plate. Make a depression in the center of the
rice mound and spoon a generous amount of the meat sauce into the depression. Top with a
fried egg. Arrange four fried banana pieces symmetrically around the the mound of rice and
the dish is ready to serve! You may want to sprinkle some freshly ground black pepper over
the concoction to sharpen up the taste. 

                              Eating Suggestion

The idea is to try combinations in your mouth at one time. First try the meat sauce and rice;
then, the meat sauce, rice and egg; then, the meat sauce, rice, egg and banana. Enjoy!

Yield: serves 4 not particularly famished adults. 
