Ande Masala (egg curry)
A rich curry sauce suitable for meat or baked sliced mushrooms but try it with eggs first ! you won?t be disappointed. 
Ingredients		
Onions		
Garlic (fresh or powdered)		
Vegetable Oil		
Butter (or ghee)		
Tinned chopped tomatoes		
Lemon Juice		
Tomato Ketchup		
Tomato puree		
Sugar		
Basmati Rice
eggs		

Spices		
Chilli powder		
Paprika powder		
Turmeric powder		
Ground Coriander		
Ground Cumin		
Garam Masala		
Ground Ginger
		
Optional		
Red Pepper		
Fresh Coriander		
Mango Chutney		
Yoghurt (Greek Style)		
Roughly chop 2/3 large onions place in a large frying pan with 1/2 a cup of vegetable oil and a couple of ozs of butter (or ghee). Add to this say 4 cloves of garlic or a desert spoon of garlic powder - a restaurant would use powder. A chopped red pepper minus the seeds adds depth and a sweet heat but it isn?t essential.
Cover and sweat the onions until they are transparent, then remove from the pan and puree either all or say three quarters of the mix, then return it to the pan and continue to gently fry until golden.
Meanwhile mix your spices ? you will need a reasonable size of bowl. The measurements below work for us but you may wish to adjust particularly the chilli powder and paprika to the desired strength.
	tsp.	
	« - 1 	chilli powder
	¬ - « 	paprika
	¬ - « 	ginger
	2 	coriander
	2 	garam masala
	1 	turmeric
	2	cumin
	1 	sugar
mix spices and sugar thoroughly then slowly add 1/3 of a cup of milk to form a paste (save other 2/3 of the cup of milk for later).
Add the paste to the now golden puree and stir in figure eight movements for 2/3 minutes then add the remaining 2/3 cup of milk plus the tinned tomatoes and a dessertspoon of tomato puree.
Stop stirring and allow the sauce to ?curdle? which will take about 3-4 mins on a low heat then stir in and simmer gently for 30 mins. If the sauce sticks then add more oil ? maybe « a cup full - you?ll be surprised how much it takes up.
Add one dessertspoon of garam masala, one dessertspoon of fenugreek leaves and to taste lemon juice and tomato ketchup (indian restaurants secret ingredient).
Freshly boil the eggs (allow 1-2 person), halve and pour sauce on top.
Serve garnished with fresh coriander leaves, yoghurt (mix with onion rings or chopped cucumber plus mint sauce for a raitha), and sweet mango chutney
