

                                     Meat and Poultry: 
                           Burgundy Shepherd's Pie 

                            from Above & Beyond Parsley... 
                                        Food for the Senses


             INGREDIENTS: 

                  2 pounds sirloin steak, trimmed and cut into 1-inch pieces 
                  1/4 cup red wine vinegar 
                  2-1/4 cups Burgundy 
                  6 tablespoons unsalted butter 
                  1 tablespoon vegetable oil 
                  1/4 cup cognac 
                  2 tablespoons flour 
                  1 teaspoon thyme 
                  1 teaspoon freshly ground pepper 
                  2 cloves garlic, minced 
                  1 bay leaf 
                  3 large carrots, peeled and sliced 
                  1 cup frozen pearl onions 
                  1/2 pound small mushrooms 
                  1 cup peas 
                  1/2 tablespoon melted butter 
                  1 teaspoon nutmeg 

                  Topping: 
                  2-1/2 pounds baking potatoes 
                  1/2 teaspoon salt 
                  4 tablespoons melted unsalted butter 
                  2 egg yolks 
                  1/3 cup milk 
                  1 teaspoon nutmeg

             TO PREPARE: 

             Place steak in a shallow baking pan and top with vinegar and 1/4 cup Burgundy. 
             Marinate for at least 2 hours at room temperature. 

             Remove steak from liquid and pat dry.  In a heavy pan, melt 2 tablespoons butter in
             oil over high heat.  Add meat and saut‚, turning constantly, until browned on all sides
             (about 5 minutes).  Transfer to a plate and set aside. 

             Add cognac to pan and deglaze by igniting.  Add 2 tablespoons butter and melt.  Add
             flour and heat for 2 minutes, stirring constantly.  Whisk in remaining Burgundy.  Bring
             mixture to a boil and scrape pan.  Add meat, thyme, pepper, garlic and bay leaf to
             pan and simmer over low heat for 30 minutes.  Add carrots and onions and continue
             cooking for another 30 minutes. 

             In a saut‚ pan, melt remaining 2 tablespoons butter over medium heat.  Saut‚
             mushrooms until they release their liquid and are browned (about 5 to 7 minutes). 
             Add peas to pan. 

             For topping:  Clean, peel and cut potatoes into 1/2-inch slices.  In a large pot, boil
             potatoes until tender, about 10 minutes.  Mash potatoes.  Beat in salt, melted butter,
             egg yolks and milk.  Set aside. 

             Transfer beef mixture to a 1-1/2 quart baking dish and remove bay leaf.  Spread
             potato topping over meat.  Drizzle melted butter over the top and dust with nutmeg. 
             Bake in a 350 degree oven for 15 to 20 minutes.  If desired, brown potatoes by
             running under the broiler for 2 minutes. 

             SERVES 8 - 10 