




    Vita Greco's Gravy

    Recipe courtesy Vita Greco

    For the meat:
    2 tablespoons olive oil
    1 pound mixed chopped meat (veal, pork and beef)
    2 - 4 pork neck bones
    1/2 pound sweet Italian sausage
    1 small lamb shank

    Prepare the meats: In a large skillet, brown all the meats in the olive oil. There is no need to cook the meats all the way
    through. Remember to pierce the sausage before cooking to allow fats and water to be released. Set meats aside.

    For the meatballs:
    1 pound mixed chopped meat (veal, pork, beef)
    2 large eggs
    1 handful chopped fresh Italian parsley
    Black pepper
    1/4 cup grated Locatelli Romano
    1/2 cup bread crumbs
    4 garlic cloves, sliced
    Olive oil, for browning

    Prepare meatballs: Combine all ingredients except the olive oil in a large bowl. Form the meatballs with your hands (there
    should be about 12). Fry in the olive oil over medium heat until browned, but not cooked all the way through. Set aside.

    For the gravy:
    1 tablespoon olive oil
    3 to 4 garlic cloves, sliced
    1 (6-ounce) can tomato paste
    3 (28-ounce) cans crushed tomatoes
    Black pepper
    Salt
    A few pinches sugar
    1 handful chopped fresh Italian parsley
    8 basil leaves
    A few pinches grated Locatelli Romano
    1 (15-ounce) can tomato sauce
    2 cups water

    Prepare the gravy: Saute garlic in the olive oil in the same skillet used to saute the meats. Add tomato paste and cook for a
    few minutes. In a large saucepot, combine the remaining ingredients except the meats and the tomato paste-garlic mixture
    and simmer. When the mixture begins to bubble, add all the meats and the meatballs and the tomato paste-garlic mixture.
    Stir about every 15 minutes, being sure to scrape the bottom of the pot to prevent burning and sticking. If the gravy seems
    too thick, add a little water at a time. Simmer for about 3 hours, keeping the lid of the pot slightly askew to prevent
    condensation of the gravy.

    Yield: about 1 quart
    Prep Time: 15 minutes
    Cook Time: 3 hours 45 minutes
    Difficulty: Medium