Perfect for a summer cookout, this recipe combines grilled chicken breasts with a colorful, piquant citrus salsa. The chicken is marinated before grilling to tenderize it and provide extra flavor, and the completed dish is served on a bed of fresh greens. 
 
You can chop up the salsa ingredients ahead of time, but don?t mix them together until just before you serve the meal. The salsa is meant to be a collection of distinct individual flavors, so you don?t want the ingredients to meld together in the refrigerator. If you don?t have a grill, you can saut‚ the chicken in a hot cast-iron skillet.   
 
GRILLED CHICKEN WITH CITRUS SALSA
Serves 4 
 
  2 jalape¤o peppers, 1 thinly sliced, 1 diced
1/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon fresh lime juice
1/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon olive oil
4 boneless chicken breasts, trimmed of fat and skin
Salt and freshly ground pepper
2 dashes tequila (optional)
1 navel orange, peeled, sectioned, and cut into 1/4-inch pieces
1 small pink grapefruit, peeled, sectioned, and cut into 1/4-inch pieces
4 scallions, thinly sliced
10 yellow and/or red cherry tomatoes, seeded and diced
Grated zests of 1/2 orange and 1/2 lime
1/4 cup fresh cilantro, chopped
4 tomatillos, diced (optional)
4 handfuls of mesclun or other mixed greens  
 
 1. In a shallow bowl, combine the jalape¤o slices with 1/4 cup each of the lime juice and olive oil. Rub chicken with salt and pepper; add to marinade. Add a dash of tequila, if using. Marinate in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes. 
 
2. In a medium bowl, combine citrus fruit, scallions, tomatoes, remaining lime juice and olive oil, zests, salt and pepper, diced jalape¤o, cilantro, tomatillos, and remaining tequila, if using. Set aside. 
 
3. Remove chicken from marinade. Cook on a hot grill for about 5 minutes on each side, or until cooked through. Remove from the grill, and let stand for 5 minutes. 
 
4. Divide the greens among four plates. Slice the chicken, and arrange it on top of greens. Spoon salsa over each salad, and serve immediately.  
 
