                             Banana Rum Puffs

Recipe By     :Gourmet, December 1997
Serving Size  : 60    Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Cookies                         Formed


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  2               cups  cold butter
  4               cups  all-purpose flour
     1/4      teaspoon  salt
  1                cup  sour cream
                        Filling
  2              large  firm-ripe bananas
  12            ounces  cream cheese -- softened
     1/2           cup  sugar
  2              large  egg yolks
  2        tablespoons  rum
  2          teaspoons  fresh lemon juice
     1/2           cup  confectioners' sugar

To bake these puffs all at once, you will need 6 mini-muffin pans,
each
containing twelve 1 3/4- by 1-inch cups. However, you could also make
them
in batches using fewer pans.
Cut butter into 1/4-inch slices.
In a large bowl with your fingertips or a pastry blender blend
together
flour, salt and butter until mixture resembles coarse meal with some
pea-size lumps of butter.
Stir in sour cream with a fork until incorporated and form dough into
a
ball.
Divide dough into 6 portions and form each piece into a 5-inchsquare.
Chill dough, wrapped separately in plastic wrap, until firm, at least
2
hours.
Mash enough of bananas to measure 1 cup and in a bowl stir together
with
remaining filling ingredients until smooth.
On a lightly floured surface roll out 1 dough square (keep remaining
dough
chilled or frozen) into a 15-by-6-inch rectangle (about 1/8 inch
thick).
With a sharp knife and a ruler cut rectangle into ten 3-inch squares.
Lay squares over ungreased mini-muffin cups (2 cups will remain empty)
and
drop 1 heaping teaspoon filling onto center of squares. Bring all four
corners of squares together and press gently to seal (filling will not
be
completely enclosed. This process will ease filled pastries into
muffin
cups).
Chill filled pastries 30 minutes. Make more pastries in same manner.
Preheat oven to 375F.
Bake pastries in batches in lower third of oven until pale golden, 20
to 25
minutes. Cool pastries in pans on racks 10 minutes and transfer to
racks to
cool completely.
(Pastries keep, layered between sheets of wax paper in airtight
containers,
and frozen 2 weeks. Before serving, thaw puffs and reheat in one layer
on a
baking sheet in a 325 F oven 7 to 10 minutes. Cool puffs on a rack.)
Dust puffs with confectioners' sugar before serving.