                        -----CRUMBLE MIXTURE-----
   2      ounces        Sweet Dark Chocolate
   2      tablespoons   Brown sugar -- packed
     1/2  teaspoon      Fresh orange rind -- grated
     1/2  teaspoon      Ground cinnamon
     1/4  teaspoon      Instant coffee
   1      tablespoon    Butter -- cold
     1/4  cup           Pecans
                        -----COFFEE CAKE MIXTURE-----
   1 3/4  cups          Unsifted flour
     2/3  cup           Sugar
   1      tablespoon    Baking powder
     1/2  teaspoon      Salt
     1/2  cup           Butter -- cold
   1                    Egg
     1/2  cup           Half & half
   1                    Egg yolk
   2      teaspoons     Water

Crumble mixture: Place pieces of broken chocolate and brown sugar in food
processor or blender. Process about 15 to 20 seconds or until as fine as
coarse ground coffee. Add orange rind, cinnamon, coffee, butter and pecans.
Process a short time until nuts are finely chopped. Set aside.

Coffee Cake: Place flour, sugar, baking powder and salt in food processor;
process for a few seconds to combine or prepare by hand using a pastry
blender. Sprinkle small butter cubes over dry ingredients. Process only 5-6
seconds to distribute butter into very small pieces, or use pastry blender.
Transfer to a bowl. Spread mixture to form a well in the center. Beat whole
egg lightly with half & half. Pour, all at once, into dry ingredients.
Using a folding motion, stir to combine ingredients- mixing only until
liquid is all absorbed. (Do not overmix. This should take only 15-20 hand
strokes.)

 Sprinkle the crumble mixture over dough in bowl. With a table knife, draw
across in 2 directions to marble crumble with dough. (Do not combine
thoroughly.) Heavily grease cups of muffin pans, disposable foil pans, glass
custard cups or cupcake liners. When portioning dough, mixture will be rough
but will come together after baking.

 To make large size muffins, fill cups level to top, yielding 9 muffins. For
medium muffins, fill cups 2/3 full, yielding 12 muffins.

Prepare egg wash by mixing water with egg yolk. Brush muffins with egg wash.
Bake at 400-F for 15-17 minutes, depending upon the size of the muffins.
Muffins should be golden brown and baked in the center.

Cool in pans about 5 minutes to firm muffins before removing. Serve warm.