Turkey stock is the basic ingredient in turkey gravy. Poured over whipped potatoes or drizzled over a generous portion of turkey, this golden-brown liquid is one of the best parts of Thanksgiving dinner. 

        The base for this stock is the neck and giblets from the turkey. Boiled together with root vegetables like carrots, onions, and celery, and herbs like bay leaves and parsley, the stock has a wonderful aroma. 

        The key to perfect stock is its clarity. Passing it through a fine sieve and a dampened cheesecloth ensures that nothing except clear liquid remains. Make the stock the day before you prepare the meal. Cooled then refrigerated until you are ready to make the gravy, this stock will constitute the beginning of an exceptional Thanksgiving feast. 
         
Homemade Turkey Stock 
    Makes 5 cups

Turkey neck and giblets (heart and gizzard), reserved from turkey
1 medium onion, cut into large chunks
2 celery stalks, cut into large chunks
2 carrots, scrubbed and cut into chunks
6 sprigs fresh flat-leaf or curly parsley
2 to 3 sprigs fresh thyme
1 whole bay leaf
1/2 teaspoon whole black peppercorns
 
1. Rinse neck and giblets well. Combine turkey neck and giblets, onion, celery, carrots, parsley, thyme, bay leaf, and peppercorns with 7 cups cold water in a medium stockpot. Place over high heat; bring to a boil. 

2. Reduce heat to a simmer, and cook for 1 1/2 hours, skimming scum that floats to top as necessary. 

3. Pass stock through a sieve lined with damp cheesecloth; discard the solids. Let stock cool, and refrigerate until ready to use.


Gravy 101
         
        No Thanksgiving dinner is complete without the gravy. Poured over whipped potatoes or drizzled over a generous portion of turkey, this golden-brown liquid is one of the quintessential comfort foods. Everyone has a favorite recipe for gravy, but the Madeira wine and rosemary in this recipe make it one of the best Martha has tasted. It has a rich brown color and is wonderfully aromatic. 

        There are three basic principles for making great gravy: Use every part of the bird, from the giblets to the juices in the roasting pan; use a fat separator; and use a whisk to eliminate lumps. 


Gravy 101 
    Makes 3 cups

Turkey Stock
1 1/2 cups Madeira
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons minced fresh rosemary
3/4 teaspoons salt
1/8 teaspoon coarse ground pepper 
             
1. Transfer roasted turkey to a large platter. Pour juices from pan into fat separator. Set aside for about 10 minutes. Separate, reserving fat. 

2. Heat the turkey stock in a medium saucepan over low heat. Place roasting pan over medium high heat. Pour Madeira into roasting pan, let bubble (increase heat if necessary), and scrape bottom and sides of pan with wooden spoon to dislodge cooked-on bits. Remove liquid from pan, and reserve with pan juices from fat separator. Return 1/4 cup reserved fat to roasting pan, sprinkle flour into pan, and cook over low heat 2 to 3 minutes. 

3. Slowly whisk heated stock and reserved pan juices into fat and flour mixture. Increase heat to medium high. Add rosemary, and season with salt and pepper. Cook until gravy is thick and coats the back of a spoon, 10 to 15 minutes. 

4. Strain gravy from pan through a very fine sieve. Adjust seasoning. Keep warm in heatproof bowl over a pan of simmering water, or serve immediately.
