               Recipe courtesy Frances
               Medeiros and Marjie Boozam [Food Nation with Bobby Flay]

               This recipe was provided by
               professional chefs and has
               been scaled down from a bulk recipe provided by a
               restaurant. The FN chefs have not tested this recipe, in
               the proportions indicated, and therefore, we cannot
               make any representation as to the results.

               3 yeast cakes 
               1/2 cup warm water 
               2 cups warm, nonfat milk (or scalded whole milk slightly
               cooled) 
               5 pounds flour
               1 teaspoon salt
               1 dozen fresh eggs, room temperature 
               3 1/2 cups sugar
               3 tablespoon lemon juice
               1/2 pound butter, melted 
               2 tablespoons salt
               1 egg, beaten 

               Dissolve 3 yeast cakes in 1/2 cup warm water, (not hot).
               Add 2 cups warm, nonfat milk (or scalded whole milk
               slightly cooled) and 3 cups flour, and 1 teaspoon salt.
               Whisk together and set aside to proof yeast. 

               In a separate bowl, add 1dozen fresh eggs, sugar, and
               lemon juice. Beat well and then add melted butter. 

               Add yeast mixture, the remaining flour and 2 tablespoons
               of salt. Mix well and let rest for 10 to 20 minutes. 

               Continue mixing until dough begins to pull away from
               bowl or knead with greased hands until dough pulls away
               from your hands. This takes a while and the dough is
               sticky unlike bread dough. Place in greased bowl and
               cover to let rise to double, about 1 to 3 hours. 

               Punch down, turn over, and let rise to double a second
               time. 

               Carefully break away about 2/3 pound of dough at a
               time, rolling dough into a nice loaf shape and place into
               greased loaf pans. This should make about 5 to 7 nice
               loafs. Let rise until double in the pans for a third rising. 

               Make two to three 1/4-inch slits on the top of each loaf
               and then brush tops with 1 beaten egg mixed with 1
               tablespoon of water. 

               Bake at 325 degrees F for about 10 minutes and then
               reduce heat to about 300 degrees F for another 25 to 30
               minutes. 

               Remove loaves from the oven and lay them on their side
               on a rack for a couple of minutes before removing from
               the pan. 

               Cook's Note: With this recipe we also make braids and
               sometimes add dried fruit and glaze the tops lightly with
               icing.

               Yield: 5 to 7 loaves
               Prep Time: 10 minutes
               Cook Time: 1 hour
               Difficulty: Medium

                                                 