CHICKEN & MUSHROOM CREPES

CREPES:
3/4 cup all purpose-flour
pinch of salt
1 1/4 cups milk
1 egg
1 Tbs melted butter or light oil
1 egg yolk

Sift the flour into a mixing bowl.  Add a pinch of salt, the egg yolk
and whole egg and half of the milk.  Stir with a wire whip until
smooth.  Add the remainder of the milk and the melted butter or oil.
All of the ingredients may be put in the blender for 10 seconds.  If
the batter is made in the blender, it may be used immediately.  If it
is prepared by hand allow it to rest for 1 hour so that the milk and
flour will be well combined.  The batter may be prepared for later use
and will keep in the refrigerator all day.  If it is left until the
next day it may need to be thinned with 2 more Tbs.  of milk.

To cook, use a crepe pan 5 to 6 inches at base, with shallow sides
(actually, mine is larger...6 1/4" bottom, 8 3/4" across top) Put
about 1 Tbs of oil in the pan and heat it until it is hot.  Tip out
the oil.  A little will remain clinging to the surface and this will
be enough in which to cook the crepes.  Return the pan to a moderately
high heat.  Select a spoon which holds enough batter to film the
bottom of the pan.  You may need to try 2 or 3 spoons until you hit on
the right one (1/4 cup works in my pan).  Put a spoonful of the crepe
batter in the pan and roll it around quickly until the base is
completely covered.  Tip out any excess batter back into the bowl.
The crepes should be as thin as possible.  They are, after all, only a
vehicle to carry the filling.  As soon as the batter appears dull and
the edges have begun to brown, use a spatula and flip it onto the
other side.  The second side will cook more quickly.  Remove the first
crepe from the pan and throw it away!  The first crepe just absorbs
the oil from the pan and doesn't taste good.  Do not add any more oil
to the pan after the first crepe is made.  There is enough oil in the
batter to prevent the crepe from sticking.

Crepes have an inside and an outside.  The side which cooks first is
the outside because it looks more attractive.  As each crepe is made,
place it in a pile on a clean tea towel.  Then as they are filled, the
stack will all be facing in the same direction.  Continue making
crepes in this manner, thinning the batter with more milk if it gets
too thick while it is standing.  If you get it too thin, put the
batter in the blender and add more flour.  The batter should be about
the consistency of light cream.  If the batter forms a clump in the
middle of the pan, the pan is too hot.  Wave the pan about in the air
to cool it down and lower the heat.  Crepes will keep in fridge
wrapped in plastic bag for 2 or 3 days.  They can successfully be
frozen filled or unfilled.  It is not necessary to separate crepes
with waxed paper when they are frozen.  Crepes can be made in the
morning and reheated at night in a 400* oven for 15 minutes.

FILLING:
4 Tbs butter
2 onions, chopped
1/2 lb. fresh mushrooms, sliced
1/2  (10 oz) pkg. frozen, chopped spinach, thawed
and well drained
2 cups coarsely chopped cooked chicken or turkey
6 Tbs sour cream
2 Tbs sherry
salt to taste

Melt butter in a large skillet.  Add onions and saute until soft.  Add
spinach, chicken, sour cream, sherry and salt to taste.  Stir until
well blended.  This mixture may be done ahead and refrigerated.

SAUCE:
6 Tbs butter
6 Tbs flour
1/2 cup sherry
2 cups chicken stock  salt
1 cup milk
3/4 cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese
1/2 cup grated Swiss or (preferably) Gruyere
cheese

Melt butter and remove from heat.  Add flour and stir until smooth.
Stir in sherry, stock and milk.  Return pan to the heat and cook,
stirring constantly until mixture is thick and at a full boil.  Reduce
heat and simmer.  Add the cheese and salt to taste.  Stir over low
heat until cheese is melted.  Remove pan from heat and cover with a
piece of waxed paper so that a skin does not form.  The sauce may be
frozen.

To assemble crepes, fill the crepes with the warmed filling, roll up
and place side by side in a baking dish.  Spoon some of the sauce over
the crepes and bake at 350 degrees for 15 minutes.  Reheat the rest of
the sauce gently and serve it separately.  Enough for 8-12 crepes.