Recipe courtesy Rachael Ray 

1 (12-inch) round or oval, crusty, chewy bread, such as Tuscan-style or a sesame semolina
1 (14 to 16-ounce) jar giardiniera*, drained 
1/2 pound thinly sliced sharp provolone
1 (14 to 16-ounce) jar roasted red peppers, or 2 fresh roasted red bell peppers, see note
1 (14-ounce) can quartered artichoke hearts in water, drained
1 (12-ounce) bag mixed salad greens, any variety
1/2 cup (a couple of handfuls) fresh Italian flat leaf parsley leaves 
15 to 20 leaves fresh basil, torn
1/3 pound sliced Genoa salami 
1/3 pound sliced sweet soppressata 
1/3 pound sliced cappacola (hot cured pork shoulder) 
1/4 red onion, thinly sliced
1 vine-ripe tomato, thinly sliced
Extra-virgin olive oil, for drizzling
Coarse salt and pepper
8 hot or sweet pickled cherry peppers
8 (8,10 or 12-inch) bamboo party skewers

Serving suggestions: green and black olives, herb flavored potato chips

* Giardiniera is a Italian pickled salad of cauliflower, hot peppers and carrot found in International Foods aisle of market
Cut the top off of a large round or oval bread and hollow it out leaving a half inch rim and bottom to your bread. The loaf should resemble a bowl or deep pie shell. 

Pulse the giardiniera in a food processor into a coarse relish. Spread and press relish into the bottom of your bread shell in an even layer. Top relish with a layer of provolone slices, red pepper pieces, and artichoke hearts. Press ingredients down as you work to make room in your shell for as much antipasto as possible. 

Combine mixed greens, parsley, and basil in a bowl. Add a thin layer of greens on top of artichokes, and drizzle with oil. Layer in meats and remaining cheese. Top with a few more greens, onion and tomato slices, and another drizzle of oil. Season the top of filled shell with salt and pepper. Bag up remaining unused greens and herbs for tomorrow night's salad. 

Replace top of bread and wrap your GIANT, drip-less antipasto stuffed pie for travel. 

When you are ready to serve, spear hot or sweet cherry peppers on 10 or 12-inch bamboo skewers and space eight skewers equidistant around the bread. Cut bread into wedges, like a pie, and serve with olives and fancy potato chips. 



Note: to roast peppers, split each red bell pepper down the center and gut them by scooping out seeds with a tug using your cupped hand. Place peppers skin-side-up under broiler preheated to high. Leave oven door ajar for steam to escape and blacken peppers entirely. Place charred peppers into a paper bag and roll the bag up tightly. Let stand 5 minutes until peppers are cool enough to handle and peel off charred skins.


Yield: 8 wedges
Prep Time: 20 minutes
Cook Time: 
Difficulty: Easy


 
