For a buffet lunch or an afternoon tea, serve an assortment of tea sandwiches in ?boxes? made from hollowed-out loaves of bread. Let the sizes, shapes, and flavors of the loaves inspire you, and plan on making about two whole sandwiches per person. 
  
  
 
Martha makes two kinds of sandwiches to go inside her bread boxes: a delicious classic chicken salad flavored with sesame oil, and a miniature tea-sandwich version of the BLT. The chicken salad may be made a day in advance and kept in an airtight container in the refrigerator. Martha?s B-L-Tea combines the spiciness of peppered bacon and the tenderness of mƒche, or lamb?s lettuce, with the concentrated flavor of sun-dried tomatoes. Sun-dried tomatoes are available packed in olive oil or packaged dried in cellophane bags; those packed in olive oil do not need rehydrating. As a base for the fillings, Martha makes her own mayonnaise. Use light olive oil in mayonnaise intended for delicately flavored foods such as tea sandwiches.  
  
  
 
To make the bread boxes, choose dense, unsliced sandwich-type bread with a sturdy crust. Martha uses a Pullman loaf and a giant peasant boule from the Balthazar bakery in New York City. The Pullman is an especially good choice, since it?s a dense bread with a solid rectangular structure and a strong crust, while the boule has a particularly attractive shape. Slice off the top of the loaf with an electric carving knife or very sharp bread knife. Cut into the soft white center crumb of the loaf, making vertical incisions 3/4 inch in from the crust on all sides. To remove the inner block of crumb from the loaf, turn it on its side, and make an incision along one side only, 1/4 inch up from the bottom crust, being careful not to pierce the crust on the other side. Remove the inner block of bread, and thinly slice it for making crustless sandwiches. To make a bread box out of a round boule, slice the top of the bread off the loaf about a third of the way down, then pull away the crumb on the inside by hand. Reserve it, and use it to make bread crumbs or croutons. Remember to wrap the bread taken from the inside of the loaf as soon as you cut it so that it doesn?t get stale.  
  
  
 
Tea sandwiches can contain virtually any filling, including egg, chicken, crab, or ham salads; pƒt‚ de foie gras; goat cheese with roasted pepper or chives; cream cheese with smoked salmon or cucumber. Simply chop the ingredients more finely than you would for full-size sandwiches, and spread or layer them on more thinly. Cut each sandwich in half diagonally, then arrange the tea sandwiches in the bread boxes with their corners sticking up for easy removal.  
  
  
Recipes 
Chicken Salad Tea Sandwiches
Makes 2 dozen

1 medium onion, skin on, sliced in half
6 black peppercorns
1 bay leaf
2 sprigs fresh thyme
1 three-and-a-half-pound chicken, giblets removed, rinsed and patted dry
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons Homemade Mayonnaise, or prepared mayonnaise
1 tablespoon dark sesame oil
2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh cilantro
2 tablespoons snipped fresh chives
3 scallions, white and light-green parts only, thinly sliced crosswise to yield 1/4 cup
Coarse salt and freshly ground pepper
24 very thin slices of white sandwich bread
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/4 cup sesame seeds, toasted  
  
  
 
1. Place the onion, peppercorns, bay leaf, and thyme in a large pot. Add the chicken to the pot with just enough cold water to cover. Cover, and bring to a simmer. Then uncover, and cook for 1 hour. Drain the chicken, reserving the cooking liquid, and set the chicken aside to cool. Discard the seasonings, and refrigerate or freeze the stock for future use. When the chicken is cool enough to handle, remove the skin, and discard. Shred the meat from the chicken, and chop it very fine. Refrigerate, covered, until well chilled.  
  
  
 
2. In a small bowl, mix together the mayonnaise and sesame oil. Add the mixture to the chicken, and combine well. Add the cilantro, chives, and scallions, and combine well. Add salt and pepper to taste. Refrigerate, covered, until ready to use.  
  
  
 
3. Spread each bread slice with butter, reserving some butter for garnishing. Spread an even layer of chicken salad onto half of the slices of bread. Top with the other half of the slices to make sandwiches. Smooth out any protruding chicken salad on either side. If necessary, trim the crusts. Cut each sandwich on the diagonal. Arrange in the bread box in any pattern you like.  
  
  
 
B-L-Tea Sandwiches
Makes 2 dozen

1 1/2 pounds thick-sliced hickory-smoked peppered bacon
24 (4 ounces) sun-dried tomatoes
1 cup Homemade Mayonnaise, or prepared mayonnaise
Coarse salt and freshly ground pepper
24 one-quarter-inch-thick slices of rye bread or 48 slices of party rye
6 ounces mƒche (lamb?s lettuce) or other baby lettuce leaves, about 2 loosely packed cups  
  
  
 
1. Preheat the oven to 375ø with the rack in the center. Arrange the bacon strips in a single layer without touching on two baking sheets, and bake, one at a time, in the oven for 10 minutes. Drain, and let cool on paper towels. Crumble the bacon into small pieces, about 1/2 inch each. Set aside.  
  
  
 
2. Meanwhile, heat 3 cups water in a small saucepan until almost boiling. Place the sun-dried tomatoes in a medium bowl, and cover with the very hot water. Allow the tomatoes to soak until soft, about 20 minutes. Drain, pat dry, and finely chop. Combine the tomatoes and the mayonnaise. Season generously with salt and pepper.  
  
  
 
3. Spread each bread slice with the mayonnaise mixture. Place bacon on half of the bread slices, sprinkle with pepper, add a layer of mƒche, and top with the remaining bread. Slice each in half, and serve.  
  
  
RECOMMENDED READING  
?Martha Stewart?s Hors D?Oeuvres Handbook? (Clarkson Potter, 1999; $35) 
Martha by Mail  
  
 