                  NEBRASKA SKILLET RUNZAS

1 pound ground beef        
1 pound sausage
3/4 cup chopped onion
4 cups shredded cabbage
1/4 cup water
3 cups flour
4 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt (for biscuit dough)
1/3 cup shortening
3/4 cup to 1 cup milk
1 can (10 3/4 ounces) Cream of Celery Soup, undiluted
1 can (10 3/4 ounces) Cream of Mushroom Soup, undiluted
Salt to taste 
Pepper to taste

Brown ground beef and sausage in 12 inch cast iron skillet.
Drain. Add onion, cabbage and water. Cover; simmer until
vegetables are tender. While vegetables are cooking, make
biscuits by blending flour, baking powder and salt. Cut in
shortening. Add enough milk to make dough consistency. 
Add both soups, salt and pepper to meat mixture. Drop
biscuits by Tablespoonful on top of meat mixture. Bake at
450 F. for 12 to 15 minutes or until biscuits are brown.
                
                 NEBRASKA RUNZA CASSEROLE

2 pounds ground beef
4 cups chopped cabbage
1 can (10 3/4 ounces) cream of mushroom soup, undiluted
2 tubes (8 ounces each) refrigerated crescent rolls
1/2 cups chopped onion
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
1/2 teaspoon pepper
*mild chedder cheese (optional)*

Preheat oven to 350 F. Brown ground beef with onion, salt and
pepper. Add cabbage and simmer about 15 minutes. Stir in cream
of mushroom soup. Grease a 9 x 13 pan. Cover bottom of pan with
one tube of crescent rolls and spoon in the beef and cabbage
mixture. (*Sprinkle with chedder cheese.* Cover with other tube
of crescent rolls. Bake for 30 minutes or until lightly browned.             


                              EASY LEMON BARS         

1 box (16 ounces) Angle Food Cake mix
1 can (15.75 ounces) Wilderness Pie Filling , Lemon Flavored

Mix dry angel food cake mix and lemon pie filling together. Keep 
mixing until  it becomes foamy. Pour into cookie sheet pan that is 
spayed with Pam. Bakke at 350 F. for 10 minutes or until brown.
Glaze with powdered sugar annd lemon juice mix together. 


Vision Cake With Seven-Minute Icing 

Cake Batter: 

2 cups flour 
2 cups sugar 
1 cup milk 
2 Tablespoons butter 
2 teaspoons vanilla 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
4 eggs 

Seven-Minute Icing: 

3 eggs whites 
1 1/2 cups sugar 
1/3 cup cold water 
2 Tablespoons white Karo Syrup 
1 teaspoon vanilla 
Dash of salt 

Cream the eggs and the sugar together. Add in the flour, salt and the baking powder. Boil the milk and add in the (melted) butter. Add the hot milk into the dry flour mixture. Add in the vanilla. Pour the cake batter into a 9x12 baking pan. Bake at 400 degrees F. for 10 minutes. Then reduce the heat down to 350 degrees F. and bake for 15 to 20 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the needed ingredients for the Seven-Minute Icing in this fashion. Combine the egg whites, salt, white Karo Syrup, sugar, and the water in top of a double boiler and beat for one minute. Place the mixture over boiling water and cook. Beat the Seven-Minute Icing until it forms stiff peaks which will take about seven minutes. Add in the vanilla and beat the Seven-Minute Icing about two minutes more until the Seven-Minute Icing is fluffy. Spread the Seven-Minute Icing on the cake. 

Tropical Chicken Salad 
Serves or makes: 4 or more people

2 cups cubed, cooked chicken 
1 cup chopped celery 
1 cup mayonnaise 
1/2 tsp to 1 tsp (5 ml) curry powder 
1 20 oz. can chunk pineapple, drained 
2 large firm bananas 
1 16 oz can mandarin oranges, drained 
1/2 cup flaked coconut 
salad greens, optional 
3/4 cup salted peanuts or cashews 

Place chicken and celery in large bowl. Combine mayonnaise and curry powder; add to chicken mixture and mix well. Cover and chill for at least 30 minutes. Before serving, add pineapple, bananas, oranges and coconut; toss gently. Serve on salad greens, if desired. Sprinkle with nuts. 

Recipe Credit: Taste of Home magazine collector's edition. 


"Eggs Ozarkia" ("Eggs Ozarkian") 

1 Biscuit, baked and cut in half 
2 eggs, fried 
sausage gravy, seasoned with salt and gravy 
real sharp chedder cheese, cut in small block slices 

Lay 2 baked biscuits halves on oven proof plate. Put the 2 fried eggs on biscuit halves, one egg per biscuit half. Ladle the sausage gravy generously over the eggs and biscuits. Put the chedder cheese block slices on top of the sausage gravy covered biscuits and eggs. Broil the biscuits and eggs until the chedder cheese softens. Serve with hashbrowns that has peanuts added in and fresh fruit salsa. Serve and enjoy! 

Recipe History Note: The "Eggs Ozarkia" ("Eggs Ozarkian") recipe has originated from Arkansas. 

that grits and toast needs to be served with the recipe but with the addition of fried bacon strips and coffee. Now you are talking about a real southern breakfast. I myself would drink a cup of creamed sugared hot tea to wash it down with instead of coffee. :-) 


The following recipe was sent in by Sheila Cheek of Crestview.

North Carolina's Favorite Sweet Potato Pie

1 1/4 cups cooked, mashed sweet potatoes
3/4 cup white sugar
1/2 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1 small box French vanilla instant pudding mix
3/4 cup evaporated milk
2 large eggs
6 tablespoons margarine, softened
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla

In mixing bowl, combine ingredients. Beat at medium speed until blended. Pour into unbaked pastry shell. Bake at 450 degrees for ten minutes. Reduce temperature to 350 degrees and bake 40 minutes longer or until set. Cool completely. Enjoy!

Spicy Tomato-Onion-Squash Hot Dish

4 or 5 yellow squash, cut up
1 onion, cut up
1 can of Rotel tomatoes with chiles
salt to taste 
pepper to taste

Cook squash and onion until soft. Combine Rotel tomatoes, onion and squash together and stir until mixed. Heat 10 or 15 minutes or until hot. Add in salt and pepper. Serve and eat. 

Recipe Credit: Shirley Cooper (Charles Arthur Cooper's wife)

Coconut Impossible Pie

2 cups milk
1 cup coconut
1/2 cup flour
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup butter melted
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
4 eggs beaten

Beat all ingredients togethe and pour into a greased 10-inch pie pan plate. Bake at 350 degrees for 45 minutes. When baked, the crust will be on the bottom, the custard will be in the middle and the coconut will be on top.   

Tim Nebelsick's mother's recipe (Rhonda's Mother-In-Law)                    