In the beginning, it was called barbacoa and used kejap as an integral part of the process, but today we know it as barbecue and consider it synonymous with the South. The sauces, spices, and cuts of meat differ from state to state and region to region; all consist primarily of pork cooked slowly over low heat. North Carolina favors pork shoulder and typically uses a thin, clear, cider vinegar?based sauce. Memphis most often employs dry-rubbed ribs while Kansas City usually enlists a dry rub and serves its ribs with a thick, sweet ketchup-based sauce. 
 
Kansas City is home to both the American Royal Barbecue Contest, the world?s biggest competitive barbecue cookoff held during the first week in October, and Gates Bar-B-Q, an empire of five restaurants run by Ollie Gates. The Gates barbecue legacy began with Ollie?s father, George, who left a railroad job in 1946 to open Gates? Ol? Kentuck in Kansas City. Nine years later a second restaurant was opened and, in 1956, they were renamed Gates & Sons Bar-B-Q and then renamed again when Ollie?s daughter Arzelia, as well as other family members, became actively involved in the business. 
 
Ollie begins cooking ribs by lighting the coals in a chimney and, using tongs, arranging the coals on one side of the grill once they are hot. The ribs are placed on the opposite side of the grill from the coals and are cooked with indirect heat. The grill is ready when the temperature reaches about 230 to 250ø. Ollie recommends laying a bed of hickory chips across the coals and then hickory-wood blocks on top of those, which imparts excellent flavor to the meat. Hickory is ideal because its density makes it burn for long periods and gives off a lasting heat. Also, it leaves little ash. 
 
Use six slabs of two-and-one-half- to three-pound pork spare ribs with the skirt still on to serve eighteen to twenty people. Trim the meat, and blot with paper towels. Then sprinkle the ribs on both sides with seasoning, and marinate for fifteen minutes. Arrange the slabs on the grill rack, keeping them close to the fire at first, then moving them further away; the meat will cook quickly in the beginning and more slowly once it is moved away from direct heat. The slabs should be cooked one hour for the first pound and a half hour more for each additional pound, about two hours altogether. When you can pull the ribs gently apart with gloved hands, they are finished. 
 
In a saucepan, warm the barbecue sauce. Transfer the ribs to a cutting board, and allow to cool slightly. Cut between the individual ribs, and serve with the sauce. 
 
At Gates Bar-B-Q, Ollie?s barbecued beans are cooked right in the pit with the ribs and given their smoky flavor from the pit drippings. In fact, bubbling pots of baked beans can be found in most Kansas City barbecue pits, soaking up smoke and collecting drippings from the ribs and briskets cooking above. A bit of barbecue sauce added to the mix is often a key ingredient. 
 
Ollie?s recipe combines two large cans of beans, some brown sugar and molasses, a touch of rib seasoning, some barbecue sauce, and a teaspoon of liquid smoke. The beans can be cooked on the grill; they should be stirred occasionally until a hardened ?crust? forms on top.   
 
The Rib Seasoning is a dry rub that should be applied to ribs 15 minutes before grilling; the Barbecue Sauce, warmed up in a saucepan, is a delightful accompaniment to the finished ribs.  
 
 RIB SEASONING
Makes about 2 cups 
 
  1 cup sugar
1/2 cup salt
2 tablespoons paprika
2 tablespoons red pepper
1 tablespoon ground cumin
1 tablespoon ground celery  
 
 In a medium bowl, mix together all ingredients. Store in a tightly sealed jar.  

 
 
 BARBECUE SAUCE
Makes about 3 quarts 
 
  1 cup sugar
1/4 cup salt
2 tablespoons celery seed
2 tablespoons ground cumin
2 tablespoons ground red pepper
2 tablespoons garlic powder
1 tablespoon chili powder
2 quarts ketchup
2 cups apple vinegar
1 1/2 teaspoons liquid smoke
1 teaspoon lemon juice  
 
 1. In a small bowl, mix together sugar, salt, celery seed, cumin, red pepper, garlic powder, and chili powder. Set aside. 
 
2. In a large bowl, combine ketchup, vinegar, liquid smoke, and lemon juice. Add dry ingredients, and mix well. Serve warm or at room temperature. 
 
3. Sauce can be stored in an airtight container in refrigerator for 2 to 3 weeks or in freezer for up to 6 months.  

 
 
 BARBECUE BEANS
SERVES 18 to 20 
 
  2 fifty-five-ounce cans baked beans
1/2 cup firmly packed dark brown sugar
1/2 cup molasses
3 tablespoons rib seasoning (recipe above)
3/4 cup barbecue sauce (recipe above)
1 teaspoon liquid smoke  
 
 1. In a cast-iron pot, combine beans, brown sugar, molasses, rib seasoning, barbecue sauce, and liquid smoke. 
 
2. Cook on the grill, stirring occasionally, until hardened ?crust? form on top of beans (approximately 20 minutes).  
 
