Put Your Faith in Phyllo 
 _____Phyllo Reminders_____ 

? Tips for Working with Phyllo 
 
 
 

    
  E-Mail This Article
  
  Printer-Friendly Version 
  
  Subscribe to The Post 
  
 
 
 
 
By Elinor Klivans
Special to The Washington Post
Wednesday, March 6, 2002; Page F05 


Ialways thought everyone agreed with me that phyllo pastry was easy to work with. After all, you buy the pastry in ready-to-use form, and all you have to do is add some sort of filling and bake it. To me, it's even easier than a cake mix!

But when I brought a phyllo dish to a get-together recently, the guests unanimously complained that phyllo becomes hard and brittle and crumbled when they try to use it. 

I realized that this group (and I suspect a lot of others, too) had been exposing it to air and letting it dry out.

Since phyllo pastry contains only flour and water, it acts the same way as a flour and water paste if allowed to dry out -- it becomes hard. The simple solution is to keep phyllo covered with plastic wrap and a damp dish towel when you work with it. If kept covered, the sheets of pastry remain soft, pliable and, I promise, are a pleasure to use. 

A reference to a version of phyllo pastry in the second century B.C. makes it one of the earliest forms of pastry. Phyllo means "leaf," in Greek and these pastry sheets are as thin as a leaf. The ultra-thin, translucent sheets look delicate and probably give phyllo its undeserved reputation for being challenging to work with. The reality is that phyllo sheets are quite sturdy and forgiving. The pastry sheets are used as a stack, so a tear or a crack in one sheet is not a problem since it will be covered by the other sheets in the stack. Any butter or oil that is used is brushed between the sheets of pastry, along with such savory seasonings as salt and pepper, herbs or sometimes sugar for sweet versions. 

Although phyllo pastry is often associated with the Greek dessert baklava or savory spinach spanakopita, there are countless ways to shape and fill it. So many, in fact, that I decided to limit these recipe ideas to savory ones. For these choices, familiar strudel is rolled up with a potato and onion filling. There is also a chicken and sweet red pepper pie with sheets of phyllo as a topping, which forms a crisp crust. Or take thin tubes of phyllo and Parmesan and bake them into crisp cocktail snacks.

The choices multiply when you adapt these fillings to include some of your favorite ingredients. Substitute tortellini or pieces of ham for the chicken in the pie or change the strudel filling to sweet potatoes with a curry seasoning. The only thing to keep in mind when you mix and match ingredients is to keep the consistency of the filling approximately the same as the original. Of course, you'll have to be ready to say, "It was nothing; let me tell you how easy it is to use phyllo."

For recipes such as the pot pie and strudel below, cut through the top layers before baking to prevent the pastry from crumbling when you cut it after it's baked. 

Crisp Parmesan Batons

(Makes 25 batons)

These appetizers are a snap to make. They are just phyllo pastry rolled up with Parmesan cheese and butter. Even better, they can be assembled ahead of time, refrigerated overnight and heated at the last minute.

5 phyllo pastry sheets (each about 17-by-13 inches), thawed if frozen (see box at right)

About 4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted

About 1 cup (4 ounces) grated Parmesan cheese

Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.

Place a large sheet of wax paper or aluminum foil on the work surface. Place 1 sheet of phyllo pastry on the paper or foil and brush it lightly with butter. Pick up 1 long side, and fold the pastry in half lengthwise, buttered sides together, to make a rectangle measuring about 8 1/2 by 13 inches. Sprinkle the top of the rectangle evenly with 2 tablespoons of the cheese. Again starting at 1 long side, roll the phyllo into a tight roll. Brush the roll lightly with butter and sprinkle with an additional 1 tablespoon of cheese, rolling the roll back and forth to coat the surface. Using scissors or shears, cut the roll into 5 pieces, each about 2 1/2 inches long. Place each piece, seam-side down, on the prepared baking sheet, being sure to place them 1 inch apart. Repeat with the remaining 4 sheets of phyllo pastry. You should have 25 batons. (May cover tightly with plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight. Set aside at room temperature for 10 minutes prior to baking.)

Bake the batons in the preheated oven for about 10 minutes, until the edges are light brown and the bottom is crisp. Serve warm.

Per serving: 45 calories, 2 gm protein, 2 gm carbohydrates, 3 gm fat, 8 mg cholesterol, 2 gm saturated fat, 103 mg sodium, trace dietary fiber

Crunch-Top Chicken Pie

(4 servings)

Phyllo pastry seasoned with salt and pepper makes a quick topping for this chicken pie. An ovenproof glass pie dish makes a good container.

6 phyllo pastry sheets (each about 17-by-13 inches), thawed if frozen (see box below)

1 tablespoon plus 3 teaspoons unsalted butter

1 cup thinly sliced onion (1 medium)

1/2 cup sweet red bell pepper, cut into matchstick-size pieces

1 clove garlic, finely chopped

1/2 teaspoon fresh or 1/4 teaspoon dried thyme

1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon all-purpose flour

1/3 cup half-and-half

3/4 cup chicken stock or broth

1 tablespoon chopped parsley

Salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste

2 cups cooked boneless, skinless chicken breast cut in 1-inch chunks (from about 13 ounces or 1 whole breast)

For brushing the phyllo:

1 tablespoon unsalted butter, melted

Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. Have ready a 9-inch ovenproof glass pie plate or ceramic baking dish.

Stack the phyllo sheets on top of one another. Place the pie plate or baking dish, upside down, on top of the phyllo and use it as a guide. Using a sharp knife, cut out a circle about 1 inch larger than the top of the dish. Discard the scraps. Cover the phyllo circles first with plastic wrap, then a damp dish towel and set aside.

In a medium skillet over medium heat, melt 2 teaspoons of the butter. Add the onion and cook, stirring occasionally, until softened, about 5 minutes. Add the bell pepper and garlic and cook, stirring occasionally, until softened, about 5 minutes. Transfer the vegetables to a bowl, add the thyme and stir to combine. Set aside.

Return the skillet to medium heat, add the remaining 1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon butter and heat until melted. Add the flour and cook, stirring constantly, until the mixture turns light golden, about 1 minute. Stirring constantly, slowly add the half and half and then the stock or broth. Cook, stirring constantly, just until the mixture begins to boil and thickens slightly. Remove from the heat; add the parsley and stir to combine. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Add the reserved vegetable mixture and chicken chunks and combine well. Transfer the mixture to the pie plate or baking dish. Set aside to cool slightly.

Place 2 of the phyllo circles on top of the filling. Brush them lightly with the melted butter and sprinkle lightly with salt and pepper to taste. Add another 2 phyllo circles and brush lightly with melted butter. Top with the remaining 2 phyllo circles, brush with butter and sprinkle lightly with salt and pepper to taste. Fold any overhanging edges of pastry underneath to form a smooth, though slightly raised, edge. Using a sharp knife, cut the top layers of the pastry into quarters (4 servings). Bake the pie in the preheated oven until the top is golden and the filling is bubbling, about 25 minutes. Using a sharp knife, cut where scored through to the bottom of the pan. Serve hot.

Per serving: 300 calories, 25 gm protein, 22 gm carbohydrates, 12 gm fat, 77 mg cholesterol, 6 gm saturated fat, 396 mg sodium, 2 gm dietary fiber

Onion, Leek and Potato Strudel

(8 servings)

This savory take on strudel could serve as either a light dinner entree or a hearty side dish.

1 pound potatoes, preferably russet, peeled and quartered

2 tablespoons unsalted butter

2 cups (about 2 medium) chopped onions

2 leeks (white part only), halved lengthwise, cleaned and thinly sliced

2 large egg yolks

1/4 teaspoon salt 

1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper

To assemble:

4 phyllo pastry sheets, thawed if frozen

2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted

Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. Have a baking sheet ready.

Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Add the potatoes and cook until tender, about 15 to 20 minutes, depending on the size. Drain, transfer to a bowl and mash. Set aside.

In a medium skillet over medium-high heat, melt the butter. Add the onions and cook, stirring frequently, until softened and the edges are beginning to brown, about 15 minutes. Add the leeks and cook, stirring frequently, just until softened. Add the onion mixture to the potatoes with the egg yolks, salt and pepper and mix to combine. Set aside.

To assemble: Cover the phyllo with plastic wrap and then a damp towel. Transfer 1 phyllo sheet to the work surface with the long side of the pastry facing you. Brush lightly with some of the melted butter. Top with a second sheet of phyllo and lightly brush it with butter. Repeat with the remaining 2 phyllo sheets, leaving the top layer of phyllo unbuttered along the 2 inches of the long side facing you and along a 1-inch border on both of the short sides of the pastry. Spoon the potato mixture over the unbuttered portion of the long side of the phyllo. Do not extend the filling to cover the unbuttered edges on the two short sides. Fold in the unbuttered short sides of the pastry so that they enclose the ends of the filling. Take the long edge nearest you and roll up the sheets and the filling tightly like a log. Brush the top lightly with melted butter. Carefully transfer the strudel, seam-side down, to the baking sheet. Using a sharp knife, score the top of the pastry every 2 inches.

Bake until the strudel is golden, about 25 minutes, reversing the baking sheet after 15 minutes to ensure even browning. Cut on the scored marks into individual pieces. Serve hot.

Per serving: 161 calories, 3 gm protein, 23 gm carbohydrates, 7 gm fat, 66 mg cholesterol, 3 gm saturated fat, 129 mg sodium, 2 gm dietary fiber

Elinor Klivans is the author of "Fearless Baking: Over 100 Recipes That Anyone Can Make" (Simon & Schuster, 2001).


? 2002 The Washington Post Company



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Related Links

Talk About Food
Join our discussions on recipes, wine, local food finds and entertaining ideas. 
 

