Meringue with Berries and Chocolate
ÿ
6 egg whites
1-1/8 cups sugar
1 tsp white vinegar or lemon juice
1 tsp vanilla
6 cups mixed blueberries, raspberries, and strawberries (if large, cut in pieces)
3/8 cup semisweet chocolate bits
2 Tbs water
ÿ
Preheat oven to 300øF. Grease and dust with matzah meal a 9" or 10" springform pan. Whip egg whites until stiff, up to 15 minutes (or about 5 minutes in a KitchenAid mixer). Gradually add sugar while continuing to whip. Add vinegar or lemon juice and vanilla and whip until it looks like marshmallow. Spoon egg white mixture into pan and make sides a little higher than middle. Bake for 50 minutes, shut off oven, and leave pan in oven overnight. In the morning, remove pan from oven and let sit on counter, uncovered, until you are ready to assemble the final product. 
Remove meringue from pan by running a knife several times around sides and then releasing pan. (You can gently move meringue to a platter by running a knife underneath it and transferring it with a spatula, or just place meringue still attached to bottom of springform pan directly on platter.) 
An hour or two before serving, melt chocolate and water together and stir until smooth. Make sure berries are dry. Pour berries into meringue shell and drizzle melted chocolate over. 
Cut meringue with a serrated knife. You will probably also need a large spoon to scoop up the berries. Makes 8-12 servings, depending on size. 
Note: a different technique for baking the meringues is to trace a circle on a piece of parchment paper taped (with masking tape) to a cookie sheet. Spoon egg whites onto parchment paper, using circle as a guide. With a spoon, form meringue into a nest with sides 1" high. Use 4 egg whites and 3/4 cup sugar, form into a 9" shell, bake at 200øF for 1 hour, and let sit in  closed oven for another 30 minutes. This size shell needs 4 cups berries, and 1/4 cup chocolate bits mixed with 4 teaspoons of water. These ingredient amounts will also form a 10" to 11" shell. You may have a problem  removing the meringue from the parchment paper, just cut around the shell and moved it and the paper underneath to serving platter. 
