Sour Cherry Fudge Cake 
Makes about 8 servings

10 oz bittersweet chocolate
2 oz unsweetened chocolate
1/4 cup water 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter or margarine, room temperature 
2 cups sugar 
2 tsp vanilla extract 
6 large eggs, separated, room temperature 
10 Tbs cake meal (not sifted) 
2 cups canned or frozen sour red cherries, drained well and patted dry with a paper towel. 
ÿÿÿÿÿÿ
Preheat oven to 300øF. Lightly grease bottom of a 9" springform pan with butter or vegetable oil. Melt both chocolates with water in top of a double boiler placed over simmering water. Set aside to cool to room temperature. Cream butter, 1-1/2 cups sugar, and vanilla in a large bowl with an electric mixer on medium speed until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Stop to scrape bowl several times with a rubber spatula. Stir egg yolks into chocolate and add to butter mixture. Beat on medium speed until smooth, about 2 minutes, stopping to scrape bowl once or twice. With mixer on low speed, add cake meal and mix until incorporated, about 20 seconds. Beat egg whites in another mixing bowl until frothy, about 30 seconds. Gradually add remaining 1/2 cup sugar and continue beating until whites form soft peaks, about 45 seconds more. Whisk 1/3 of egg whites into chocolate mixture to loosen it, then fold remaining egg whites into batter with a rubber spatula. Place cherries evenly over surface of batter and fold in very gently with several slow stroke of the spatula. Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake on center oven rack until it has risen and set and a tester inserted in center comes out with a moist crumb, 1-1/2 to 2 hours. 
Note: Cake will form a crust on top while baking; when cake cools it will drop and crust will crack. If you are bothered by its appearance, spread a layer of whipped cream on top and sprinkle chocolate shavings over whipped cream or just sprinkle confectioner's sugar over cake and serve plain. Cake can be served warm (an hour or so after baking or reheated in oven or microwave), at room temperature, or cold. 
Our staff sampled it both warm and cold. We enjoyed its fudge-like character when cold, but were in heaven with the lighter, souffl‚-like texture and more distinct cherry flavor of the warm cake.


Chocolate Cherry Wine Cake

6 eggs
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup cake meal
6 Tbs cocoa
1/4 cup Concord Grape Wine
3/4 cup almonds, finely chopped
15 oz  can dark sweet cherries, pitted
and drained

Separate eggs. Beat whites in medium bowl until stiff but not dry. Set aside. Sift cake meal with cocoa.
In a large bowl, beat yolks slightly then add sugar and beat until lemon colored. Fold cake meal/cocoa mixture into yolk mixture alternately with wine. Add finely chopped almonds just until blended. By hand, incorporate some of the beaten egg whites into  batter and gently mix. Then, gently fold remaining egg whites into batter.
Add cherries and mix with just a few strokes. Pour batter into 10-1/2" springform pan that has been lightly greased and floured with a little cocoa on bottom. Bake at 350øF for 50 minutes or until cake springs back when gently touched. Cool. Run knife around the edge of pan and serve. May be served with cherry preserves on top. Serves: 12
