Fantastic Fish Pie


               Recipe courtesy Jamie Oliver

               The whole fish pie thing is
               one of the most homely,
               comforting and ?moreish?
               dinners I can think of. This
               is a cracking recipe, which does it for me.

               6 large potatoes, peeled and diced into 1-inch squares
               2 free-range eggs
               2 large handfuls of fresh spinach, trimmed and washed
               1 onion, finely chopped
               1 carrot, halved and finely chopped
               Extra-virgin olive oil
               1 cup heavy cream
               2 good handfuls of grated mature Cheddar or Parmesan 
               1 lemon, juiced
               1 heaped teaspoon English mustard
               1 large handful of flat-leaf parsley, finely chopped
               1 pound haddock or fresh cod fillet, skin removed,
               pin-boned and sliced into strips
               Salt and freshly ground black pepper
               Nutmeg (optional)

               Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Put the potatoes into
               salted boiling water and bring back to the boil for 2
               minutes. Carefully add the eggs to the pan and cook for a
               further 8 minutes until hard boiled, by which time the
               potatoes should also be cooked. At the same time, steam
               the spinach in a colander above the pan. This will only
               take a minute. When the spinach is done, remove from the
               colander and gently squeeze any excess moisture away.
               Then drain the potatoes in the colander. Remove the eggs,
               cool under cold water, then peel and quarter them. Set
               aside. 

               In a separate pan slowly fry the onion and carrot in a little
               olive oil for about 5 minutes, then add the heavy cream and
               bring just to the boil. Remove from the heat and add the
               cheese, lemon juice, mustard and parsley. Put the
               spinach, fish and eggs into an appropriately sized
               earthenware dish and mix together, pouring over the
               creamy vegetable sauce. The cooked potatoes should be
               drained and mashed ? add a bit of olive oil, salt, pepper,
               and a touch of nutmeg if you like. Spread on top of the
               fish. Don?t bother piping it to make it look pretty ? it?s a
               homely hearty thing. Place in the oven for about 25 to 30
               minutes until the potatoes are golden. Serve with some
               nice peas or greens, not forgetting your baked beans and
               tomato ketchup. Tacky but tasty and that?s what I like. 

               Yield: 6 servings
               Prep Time: 30 minutes
               Cook Time: 50 minutes