
Recipe courtesy Ginger Mareno
1/2 cup olive oil
3 tablespoons Achiote seeds
1 or 2 whole chickens cut into parts or 5 boneless chicken breasts cut into chunks
2 brown onions, diced
10 cloves garlic, minced
2 green peppers, diced
1 red pepper, diced
1 yellow pepper, diced
1 jar capers
3 cups long grain rice
1/2 bunch cilantro leaves, cut up
6 basil leaves cut into strips
4 cups chicken broth
1 jar green olives (pimento stuffed)
3 bay leaves
Salt and pepper, to taste
1 can baby peas
Garnishes: pimentos and fresh asparagus Place 1/2 cup of olive oil in small pan and add the achiote. Heat on medium heat until bubbles form, then remove from heat and let steep. Drain achiote seeds from oil (should be a vibrant reddish-orange color). Place oil in large stockpot. Heat oil on high and place chicken pieces in pot and brown   this is done just to brown chicken NOT to cook it. Remove chicken from pot Place diced onions, garlic, and peppers in pot with the achiote. Saute until soft (do not burn garlic). Put capers in pot and cook for a while with the onion mixture. Add rice to the pot with garlic, peppers, garlic and capers, then swirl rice into the mixture. Let the rice cook for just about a minute. Place cut up cilantro and basil in pot. Add in chicken broth and make sure you scrape the pot. Add chicken pieces back in. Put olives in and mix. Place bay leaves in pot. Check for seasonings(Please note: add salt and pepper at the end). Let the mixture cook on medium heat until the rice is done. Add peas just before serving. In another medium pot place peeled asparagus in water and boil until they turn bright green. Place in ice bath to stop the cooking process. To serve, place rice and chicken in a large platter. Arrange chicken pieces around platter and rice in the center. Place cooked asparagus around the platter and then place pimentos in the center. Serve with tostones (recipe follows). The recipes for this program, which were provided by contributors and guests who may not be professional chefs, have not been tested in Food Network s kitchens. Therefore, Food Network cannot attest to the accuracy of any of the recipes. TOSTONES4 plantains1/2 cup peanut oilSalt Peel plantains and cut at an angle. Place in cold water with salt. In a large frying pan put in 1/2 cup oil (preferably peanut oil ). Place plantains in pan and cook until somewhat soft (they will turn a lovely pale yellow color). Take them out of the pan and smash each one between 2 pieces of foil (folded 2 or 3 times to make a thick pad   place 2 paper towels on top of foil so that you don t burn yourself). Return to frying pan (you may have to add more oil). Fry until crisp and then season with salt. Serve with rice and chicken   or just about anything! Difficulty: Easy

