From: Diane Petronio  mailto:aunniebjammin@yahoo.com 

Hello all.  This theme is awesome.  Especially for those of us who 
love to eat but like to do it with the good stuff!  It was finally 
time for me to participate as I have been a reader of this wonderful 
ezine for a very long time.  Dakota puppy says hello to Nell, she 
doesn't get much in the way of people food, but she doesn't mind. 

This recipe is one that I revised from one of the healthy cooking 
magazines and serve it on a regular basis to many family members. 
Have not come across anyone who likes french fries that doesn't like 
them. 

Aunnie's Baked Fries 

2-3 lbs russet or baking potatoes 
cooking spray 
olive oil 
seasoned salt 
garlic powder/onion powder 
black pepper 

Preheat oven to 425 F.  Spray a large cookie sheet 10 x 15 will 
cooking spray.  Set aside.  Pour cold water into a large mixing bowl, 
filling it approx 1/2 full.  This will be used to soak the potatoes. 
Scrub the potatoes under cold water with a scrub brush.  Or, if you 
prefer, they can be peeled.  Slice the potatoes in whatever fashion 
you like french fries - either shoestring or small wedges; anything 
larger does not cook very well in this way.  When you are done 
slicing, place the sliced potatoes into the bowl of cold water.  This 
will soak some of the starch out and enable them to bake crispy. 
After all the potatoes are sliced, soak for approx.  3-5 more minutes. 
Drain the water out.  Add 2-3 T.  of olive oil to the potatoes and 
toss.  Place them in a single layer on the cookie sheet, spray with 
cooking spray and bake.  Time to bake will depend on how thick you 
have cut them.  As a general rule, they will need to be turned after 
15 minutes per side.  When you flip them, spray again with the cooking 
spray.  Since you are not saturating them with the oil, they will 
stick to the pan if you don't watch.  Usually they take 30-40 minutes, 
but keep an eye on them the first time you try since oven heating 
temperatures will vary.  When they are done -yes of course you can 
sample, toss them in a large bowl, spray again and this will give you 
a little coating to sprinkle the seasoned salt (go easy on that one!), 
garlic powder, or onion powder and pepper.  Hope you enjoy them as 
much as we do!
