BANANA SPLIT CEREAL

Who said banana splits were only for dessert? Yogurt, cereal, and fruit combine to make a powerhouse breakfast!

TOOLS:
small, sharp knife 
measuring cup 
spoon 
colander 
cutting board 
 INGREDIENTS:
1 small, ripe banana 
cup fresh blueberries or other fresh fruit 
cup nonfat or low-fat vanilla yogurt 
cup low-sugar cereal (such as Cheerios, Wheaties, Grape-Nuts, or Bran Flakes) 
 

DIRECTIONS: 

1. Peel the banana and slice it lengthwise (from tip to tip). Wash the blueberries by placing them in a colander and running water over them. (If you are using another fruit, wash it and cut it into small pieces.)

2. Spoon the yogurt in a mound in the center of a cereal bowl.

3. Sprinkle the cereal on top of the yogurt

4. Arrange the banana halves on either side of the yogurt

5. Sprinkle the top with the blueberries or other fruit

Per serving: Calories: 279; Total Fat: 2.7 grams (.6 teaspoons); Saturated Fat: 0.5 grams; Sodium: 246 milligrams; Cholesterol: 2 milligrams.
BLUEBERRY PANCAKES
Try these berry-licious pancakes on weekend or holiday mornings when you have extra time for breakfast.

TOOLS:
large, nonstick frying pan or griddle 
wire whisk 
long-handled wooden spoon 
large mixing bowl 
spatula 
measuring spoons 
medium mixing bowl 
 INGREDIENTS:
cup all-purpose flour 
cup whole-wheat flour 
1 teaspoons baking powder 
teaspoon baking soda 
1 cup buttermilk 
1 egg 
1 egg white 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 
1 cup blueberries, fresh or frozen (if frozen there is no need to thaw the berries completely before using them) 
Vegetable spray oil 
Fresh fruit, fruit spread, or light syrup 
 

DIRECTIONS:

1. In a large bowl, mix the flours, baking powder, and baking soda with a wooden spoon (about 10 circles).

2. In a medium bowl, whip the buttermilk, egg, egg white, and oil with a wire whisk until it is fluffy and a light yellow (about 30 quick strokes).

3. Add the wet ingredients to the dry flour mixture. Whip with the wire whisk until it is combined but not smooth (about 20 brisk strokes) -- it should be a little bit lumpy.

4. Add the blueberries and gently mix them into the batter using the wooden spoon.

5. Heat a large, nonstick frying pan or griddle to medium-hot (350 degrees). Spray with vegetable oil spray. Drop a tiny drop of the batter into the frying pan to test for the correct heat -- when it sizzles it is ready. Pour cup of batter into the frying pan. When the pancake is bubbly on top and the edges are starting to brown lightly, carefully flip the pancake using a spatula. Cook on this side for 1 or 2 minutes.

6. Serve the pancakes immediately, with your favorite fresh fruit, fruit spread, or light syrup.

Per pancake: Calories: 68; Total Fat: 2.1 grams (.5 teaspoons); Saturated Fat: 0.4 grams; Sodium: 103 milligrams; Cholesterol: 24 milligrams. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
