Denise Jo Anne Yennie
Nashville, Tennessee
$1 Million Dollar Pillsbury Bake-Off Winner
Luscious and Lighter Main and Side Dishes Category

Prep time: 35 minutes

1 (10 ounce) can Pillsbury Refrigerated Pizza Crust
1 (9 ounce) package Green Giant Frozen Spinach
1 /4 cup light mayonnaise
1 garlic clove, minced
1 tablespoon olive oil
1 cup chopped red onion
1 tablespoon sugar
1 tablespoon vinegar (cider, red wine or balsamic)
2 boneless skinless chicken breast halves
1 /2 teaspoon dried Italian seasoning
1 garlic clove, minced
4 (4-inch) slices provolone cheese

   Heat oven to 375 F. Unroll dough; place in ungreased 15 X 10 X 1 inch baking pan. Starting at center, press out dough to edges of pan. Bake at 375 degrees F for 10 minutes. Cool 15 minutes or until completely cooled.

   Meanwhile, cook spinach as directed on package. Drain well; squeeze dry with paper towels.

    In small bowl, combine mayonnaise and one of the garlic cloves. Mix well. Refrigerate.

    Heat oil in small saucepan over medium high heat until hot. Add onion; cook and stir 2 to 3 minutes or until crisp-tender. Add sugar and vinegar. Reduce heat to low; simmer 3 to 5 minutes or until most of the liquid has evaporated, stirring occasionally.

      To flatten each chicken breast half, place, boned side up, between two pieces of plastic wrap or waxed paper. Working from center, gently pound chicken with flat side of meat mallet or rolling pin until 1 /4 inch thick; remove wrap. Sprinkle chicken with Italian seasoning and minced garlic.

       Spray large skillet with nonstick cooking spray. Heat over medium-high heat until hot. Add chicken; cook 8 minutes or until browned; fork-tender and juices run clear, turning once. 

        Cut cooled pizza crust into 4 rectangles. Remove rectangles from pan; spread each with one tablespoon mayonnaise mixture. Top 2 rectangles with chicken, spinach, onion mixture, cheese and remaining crust rectangles, mayonnaise side down.
  
        Heat large cast iron skillet over medium-high heat until hot. Place sandwiches in skillet. Place smaller skillet on sandwiches to flatten slightly. Cook 4 to 6 minutes or until crisp and heated, turning once. Cut each warm sandwich into quarters.

        Makes 8 sandwiches, 4 servings.
