Ice Cream Cake Roll 

1 box chocolate cake mix
1 extra egg

Start with a regular boxed chocolate cake; follow directions on box except add 1 extra egg. Line a 15"x10" cookie with waxed paper. Grease and flour wax paper. Pour batter evenly into prepared cookie sheet. Bake for about 15 to 18 minutes or until a toothpick inserted comes out clean. On a flat surface, lay out a clean cotton cloth approximately the size of the cookie sheet. Sift powdered sugar over the cloth. While cake is still warm, turn cake out onto prepared cloth. Remove waxed paper. Trim edges of cake off. Roll the cake with the cloth, starting with the long side. Roll as tightly as possible, then place on a cooling rack, seam-side down. When cool, unroll cake, remove cloth. Spread soft ice cream over entire cake to within 1/2" of edges. Re-roll cake and place seam-side down in the freezer for at least 3 hours. Slice and serve. 
Variations: 
>Add chocolate chips to soft ice cream >Use frozen yogurt instead of ice cream 
>Use Cool Whip instead of ice cream (when frozen it tastes a lot like ice cream and is lower calories 
>Add your favorite jelly or preserves for a great Jelly Cake Roll 

Ice Cream Cakeÿ

1 package Oreo cookies
1/3 cup butter, melted
1/3 cup slivered almonds, toasted 
2 pints coffee ice cream, softened
1 pint vanilla ice cream, softened
2 cups semi-sweet chocolate chips
1/4 cup milk or cream
1/4 cup Grand Marnier
ÿ
Serves 12 
Crush cookies and mix 4 cups crumbs with melted butter and toasted almonds, reserving a small amount of crumbs and almonds for the topping. Pat crumb mixture in bottom and slightly up sides of a 10" springform cake pan. Bake at 375øF for about 15 minutes. Remove from oven and cool completely. Fill crust with ice cream, layering flavors. Sprinkle top with reserved almonds and crumbs and freeze solid. Make a chocolate sauce by melting chocolate chips over low heat. Add cream or milk to thin, then stir in Grand Marnier. Serve cake with sauce drizzled over each slice.

Frozen Banana Loaf

1-1/2 cups chocolate wafer cookie crumbs (about 30 wafers) 
1/4 cup sugar 
3 Tbs margarine or butter, melted 
14 oz sweetened condensed milk  
2/3 cup chocolate syrup 
2 small ripe bananas, mashed (3/4 cup) 2 cups (1 pint) whipping cream, whipped (do not use whipped topping)

Line a 9"x5" loaf pan with aluminum foil, extending foil above sides of pan; butter foil. Combine crumbs, sugar and margarine; press firmly on bottom and halfway up sides of prepared pan. In large bowl, combine sweetened condensed milk, chocolate syrup and bananas; mix well. Fold in whipped cream. Pour into prepared pan; cover. Freeze 6 hours or until firm. To serve, remove from pan, peel off foil. Garnish as desired. slice to serve. Freeze leftovers. Makes 8 to 10 servings.ÿ

Ice Cream Tiramisu Cake
Makes 12 servingsÿ

1 cup white sugarÿ
2/3 cup waterÿ
1-1/2 cups brewed espressoÿ
1/3 cup coffee flavored liqueurÿ
1 (9") sponge cakeÿ
1/4 cup finely ground espresso beansÿ
2 pints espresso ice creamÿ
2 pints coffee ice creamÿ

In a small saucepan over medium heat, combineÿsugar and water. Bring to a boil, then removeÿfrom heat and stir in espresso and coffeeÿliqueur. Let cool completely.ÿSplit sponge cake in half horizontally toÿmake two layers. Place bottom layer in a servingÿ
dish. Brush with 3/4 cup coffee syrup. Sprinkleÿ2 tablespoons ground espresso evenly over surfaceÿof cake. Beat  espresso ice cream withÿpaddle attachment of an electric mixer untilÿ
spreadable. Spread over bottom cake layer. Placeÿthe top cake layer over the ice cream. Brush withÿremaining coffee syrup. Place in freezer 30 minutes.ÿBeat coffee ice cream until spreadable.ÿSpread over the frozen cake, andÿswirl to make pretty. Return cake to freezerÿuntil firm.


Coffee "Ice Cream" Cake 

2-« cups oatmeal 
1-¬ stick margarine 
1 cup brown sugar 
1 cup ground walnuts 
1 tsp vanilla sugar 

Mix together and pat into a 9"x13" pan. Bake at 350øF for 10 minutes or until golden brown 

Chocolate mixture 
1-« cups chocolate chips 
4 sticks margarine
8 eggs 
4 cups confectionary sugar 
3 tsp  instant coffee granules 
8 tsp vanilla 

Topping 
2 (10 oz) containers pareve topping 
1 Tbs confectioners sugar 
1 tsp instant coffee granules 
1 tsp vanilla 

Bake crust, remove from oven and cool. Melt margarine and chocolate chips in double boiler. Mix eggs, confectioners sugar, vanilla and coffee in mixer. Pour chocolate mixture into egg mixture and mix well. Pour on top of crust and freeze. When frozen, mix up topping and pour over frozen mixture and freeze.

Old Fashioned Ice Cream Cake - 3 Ways 

Cake
3/4 cup unsalted butter, softened
2 cups sugar
3 eggs
1 tsp vanilla extract
1/2 cup warm water
1/2 cup warm milk
3/8 tsp salt
1 Tbs baking powder
1 cup cake flour
1-3/4 cups all-purpose flour

Preheat oven to 350øF. Generously spray a 10" springform cake pan with nonstick cooking spray. Place a circle of parchment paper on pan bottom. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and set aside. Place sugar in food processor and grind for 20 or 30 seconds. Add butter and process until blended. Add eggs and vanilla and blend. Add remaining ingredients and blend until smooth, about 2 to 3 minutes.Pour batter into prepared pan and place pan on baking sheet. Bake until cake springs back when gently touched, 35-45 minutes. Cool cake for 15 minutes before removing from pans, then cool to room temperature before icing. (You can wrap the cake and freeze it for another time or for easier handling.) To assemble, split horizontally in 3 layers, slather fillings on each layer and press into place. Freeze to set.

DULCE DE LECHE ICE CREAM CAKE
1 jar Dulce De Leche
1-1/2 quarts quality vanilla or caramel ice cream
1 cup toasted buttered pecans

Split cake in 3. Place one layer in bottom of springform pan. Smear on some Dulce De Leche, then a quality Vanilla or Caramel Ice Cream. Top with toasted butter pecans and warmed dulce de leche, drizzled over.

RASPBERRY AND WHITE CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM CAKE
1 pint fresh or frozen raspberries, pureed
1/4 cup sugar
1-1/2 quarts vanilla ice cream

CHOCOLATE GANACHE
1 cup semi-sweet chocolate
1/2 cup whipping cream

GARNISH
1 cup white chocolate shavings
1/4 cup white chocolate, melted

Mix raspberries with sugar. On each cake layer smear on some raspberry puree. Top with softened vanilla
ice cream. Repeat with other layers, using springform pan cake was baked in as your mold. On top layer, coat thinly with vanilla ice cream. Freeze while making ganache.
Ganache: Heat cream to just boiling. Whisk in chocolate and stir to melt. Once cooled but thick, pour over frozen cake. Freeze slightly.  Before serving, either sprinkled on white chocolate shavings and fresh raspberries, or fresh raspberries and drizzle melted white chocolate on top.

FUDGE HAZELNUT ICE CREAM CAKE
This one can be made in four layers. Make bottom layer a brownie bottom (mix or homemade), and layer as you would cakes above.
1-1/2 quarts chocolate ice cream
1 cup chocolate chips
1 jar Nutella 
1 recipe ganache (see above)
1 cup semi sweet chocolate curls

Split cake into 3 layers. Put 1 layer in springform pan. Soften ice cream and fold in chocolate chips. Smear Nutella on bottom most layer, then slather on 1/3 the ice cream. Top with a cake layer, more Nutella, and ice cream. Top with more cake and finish with ice cream. Let freeze about 1 hour. Top with chocolate ganache before serving, allowing excess to drip down sides. Garnish with chocolate curls.