
Center:

1/4 cup whole milk
5 unwrapped caramels
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
1 tsp. peanut butter
1/4 tsp. vanilla
1/4 tsp. salt
1-1/4 cups powdered sugar

20 unwrapped caramels
1-1/2 tsp. water
2 cups dry roasted peanuts

Combine all ingredients for the centers, except the powdered sugar, in a 
small saucepan over low heat. Stir often as the caramel slowly melts. 
When the mixture is smooth, add 3/4 cup of powdered sugar. Stir. Save 
the remaining 1/2 cup of powdered sugar for later.

Use a candy thermometer to bring the mixture to exactly 230*, stirring 
often, then turn off the heat.

When the temperature of the candy begins to drop, add the remaining 1/2 
cpu powdered sugar to the pan, then use a hand mixer on high speed to 
combine. Keep mixing until the candy cools and thickens and can no 
longer be mixed. That should take a minute or two.

Let the candy cool in the pan for 15 to 20 minutes, or until it can be 
touched. Don't let it sit long, you want the candy to still be warm and 
pliable when you shape it. Take a tablespoon-size portion and roll it 
between your palms or on a countertop until it forms a roll about 4-1/2 
inches long. Repeat with the remaining center candy mixture and place 
the rolls on wax paper. You should have 8 rolls. Let the center rolls 
sit out for an hour or two to firm up.

Combine the 20 caramels with the 1-1/2 tsp. of water in a small saucepan 
over low heat. Stir often until the caramels melt completely, then turn 
off the heat. If you work fast this caramel will stay warm while you 
make the candy bars.

Pour the peanuts onto a baking sheet or other flat surface. Using a 
basting brush ad working quickly, "paint" a coating of caramel onto one 
side of a center roll. Quickly turn the center over, caramel side down 
onto the peanuts and press gently so that the peanuts stick to the 
surface of the candy. Paint more caramel onto the other side of the 
roll and press it down onto the peanuts. The candy should have a solid 
layer of peanuts covering all sides. If needed, brush additional 
caramel onto the roll, then turn it onto the peanuts to coat the roll 
completely. Place the candy bars onto was paper and repeat with the 
remaining ingredients. Eat when completely cool.

Makes 8 candy bars.

ENJOY!

