Chicken Adobo
          Adobo is probably one of the most well known Filipino
          dishes. It is basically a stew, but the word adobo basically
          refers to the style of cooking, not necessarily the
          ingredients, because the possibilities are endless. This
          recipe uses chicken, but beef or pork can easily be
          substituted. I grew up eating this dish, my grandmother's is
          my favorite. I am like her, don't measure just throw things
          in by feel. So I decided to look up a recipe and I've made
          comments on my preferences.

          Ingredients
          1 3 lb chicken cut into pieces (I actually just use whatever
          chicken I have on hand, boneless pieces, wings, drumsticks,
          etc.)
          1/2 c. soy sauce (I use low sodium)
          3/4 c. white vinegar
          1 or 2 head of crushed garlic (not cloves, but entire heads,
          I've actually made it with less and it's just fine.)
          2 bay leaves (I use about 1 tsp. crushed bay leaves)
          1/2 tbl whole peppercorns
          Additional salt and pepper to taste (I'd say easy on the salt
          since you have soy sauce)

          1. Combine all the ingredients in a pot and bring to a boil.
          Continue to simmer for 30 minutes.
          2. Remove the chicken pieces (should be beginning to fall
          apart) and place in pan to either broil in the oven or fry on
          the stovetop for about 10 minutes.
          3. Continue to cook the sauce until reduced by half.
          4. Cover the chicken w/ the reduced sauce and serve.

          Notes: One thing I do different is just put the chicken and
          most of the sauce into the fry pan and cook all together to
          reduce the sauce, it becomes thicker and sticky. I just add
          more sauce from the pot as the sauce in the fry pan
          disappears (as it thickens it sticks to the chicken pieces).
          My grandmother has told me that some people just serve it
          more like a stew w/ the "wet" sauce, so you eliminate the
          final steps. Just simmer the chicken a little longer than 30
          minutes just so the chicken is tender and falling apart.
          Cooking all day in a crock pot is also a good method.

          Traditionally it's served over rice (oh well!) but you can just
          eat larger servings and serve w/ sauteed veggies. Adobo is
          basically anything that is cooked with the soy sauce and
          vinegar method. This method comes in handy because it
          preserves the food, so in the tropical islands of the
          Philippines where not everyone has refrigeration, this dish
          techinically doesn't need it since it's preserved