This year, 2002, we had our first Christmas in our new house, 125 Mt. Alberta Place, in Calgary.  

Everyone came down for Chrstmas plus Cliff and Dan joined us.  The family came down on December 23 and left on Boxing Day.  

We played pool and watched a couple of movies - Men with Brooms and a made for TV movie with Mimi Rogers.

Our menu consisted of turkey, prime rib, garlic mashed potatoes, cauliflower with cheese sauce, homemade horseradish, homemade cranberry rum sauce, plus Karen's homemade dill pickles, (that was Christmas dinner).  For snacks we had an appetizer that consisted of a varied assortment of mushrooms stirfried with onions and layered with cream cheese and goat's cheese wrapped in phyllo.  Tasty.  Also had mulled wine and homemade eggnog.  Made some baklava as well as buttertart squares and almond roca  (although I forgot to bring out the roca while everyone was here but we (Randy, Cliff and I) had no trouble with that._  For Christmas Eve I had purchased some cabbage rolls, perogies, and sausage from St. Vladimir Ukrainian Church and we had that.  The only problem was that the cabbage rolls didn't seem to cook through.  The cabbage was quite tough.

Rascal had fun.  He was so tired after everyone left that he had a super long snooze.  He was quite cuddley.  But he checked out all the rooms of the house when he woke up to see if anyone was here.  He seemed quite dissapointed when he realized that no one was here.

For our anniversary this year (17th) we stayed home as usual.  We were both pooped from all the hubba-baloo over Christmas but we did go out on the 29th to celebrate.  We did a bit of shopping and then went to Sante Fe Grille for lunch.  Had a couple of wines and then went home.  It was perfect!  Watched "Minority Report" starring Tom Cruise, with Cliff and we had a perfect night.  

All the best to everyone in the New Year and because I know I won't be looking at this until next year probably, have a great year to us, Randy and Devon and Rascal.  May our families enjoy great health and happiness in 2003!! 

Thank you God for another precious and wonderful year.  

Talk to you next year!!!!

Devon for
R&D