Cranberry-Orange Bundt? Cake 
Laced with tangy cranberries and the bright flavors of fresh orange, this cake is well suited to winter gatherings. A simple glaze adds a festive finish. 
 



1/2 cup dried cranberries
5 Tbs. fresh orange juice
2 Tbs. finely grated orange zest
2 Tbs. firmly packed light brown sugar
1/2 cup chopped toasted pecans
2 2/3 cups all-purpose flour
1 tsp. baking powder
1 tsp. baking soda
1/4 tsp. salt
12 Tbs. (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter
1 cup granulated sugar
4 eggs
1 tsp. vanilla extract
1 cup plus 2 Tbs. sour cream
2 Tbs. orange marmalade
1/2 cup confectioners? sugar, sifted



Have all the ingredients at room temperature. 

Position a rack in the lower third of an oven and preheat to 325øF. Grease and flour a cathedral cake pan or a 10-cup Bundt? pan. 

In a saucepan over medium-low heat, combine the cranberries and 4 Tbs. of the orange juice. Bring to a simmer and cook, stirring occasionally, until the juice is nearly evaporated. Let cool and chop the cranberries finely. 

In a bowl, combine the cranberries, orange zest, brown sugar and pecans and stir to mix. Over a sheet of waxed paper, sift together the flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt. Set aside. 

In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the flat beater, beat the butter on medium speed until smooth and creamy, about 30 seconds. Add the granulated sugar and beat until light and fluffy, 3 to 5 minutes, stopping the mixer occasionally to scrape down the sides of the bowl. Add the eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition. Then beat in the vanilla. 

Reduce the speed to low and add the flour mixture in three additions, alternating with the sour cream and beginning and ending with the flour, beating until just incorporated; stop the mixer occasionally to scrape down the sides of the bowl. Spread one-third of the batter into the prepared pan and top with half the cranberry mixture. Repeat the layering, then spread the remaining batter on top. Bake until the cake springs back when touched and pulls away from the sides of the pan, 50 to 55 minutes. Transfer the pan to a wire rack and let the cake cool upright in the pan for 5 minutes. Set the rack over a sheet of waxed paper, invert the pan onto the rack and lift off the pan. 

In a saucepan over low heat, melt the marmalade with the remaining 1 Tbs. orange juice, then stir in the confectioners? sugar until smooth. Using a pastry brush, brush the warm cake with the glaze. Let the cake cool completely before serving. Serves 16.
