Makes 8 small loaves.
Dough:  1 1/2 cups warm water			
2 tablespoons butter, softened
1/2 cup honey				
2 cups bread flour
1 2/3 cups wheat flour			
1 tablespoon cocoa
1 tablespoon granulated sugar			
2 teaspoons instant coffee
1 teaspoon salt				
2 1/4 teaspoons (1 pkg.) yeast
Coloring:  1/4 cup water			
75 drops red food coloring
45 drops blue food coloring			
30 drops yellow food coloring
cornmeal for dusting
1.  If using a bread machine, add all ingredients for the dough in the exact order listed into the pan of your machine. Set it on "knead" and when the machine begins to mix the dough, combine food coloring with 1/4 cup of water and drizzle it into mixture as it combines. After dough is created let it rest to rise for an hour or so. Then remove it from pan and go to step #3.
2. If you are not using a bread machine, combine flours, cocoa, sugar, coffee and salt in large bowl. Make a depression or "well" in middle of dry mixture. Pour warm water into this "well," then add butter, honey and yeast. Combine food coloring drops with 1/4 cup of water and add that to the "well." Slowly mix ingredients with a spoon, drawing dry ingredients into the wet. When you can handle the dough, begin to combine it by hand, kneading dough thoroughly for at least 10 min., until very smooth and has a consistent color. Set dough into a covered bowl in a warm place for an hour, to allow it to rise.
3. When dough has risen to ~double in size, punch it down and divide it into 8 even portions (divide dough in half, divide those halves in half, and then once more). Form the portions into tubular shaped loaves ~8 inches long and 2 inches wide. Sprinkle entire surface of loaves with cornmeal and place them on a cookie sheet, or two. Cover cookie sheet(s) with plastic wrap and let dough rise once more for another hour in a warm location.
4. Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Uncover dough and bake it for 20-24 min. in the hot oven. Loaves should begin to darken slightly on top when done. Serve warm with a sharp bread knife and butter on the side. If you want whipped butter, use an electric mixer on high speed to whip some butter until it's fluffy.  *It is normal for this dough to be a bit tacky and to seem somewhat thin. Just be sure to add plenty of flour to your hands and work surface when working with the dough to prevent sticking.
If you are able to find caramel color, you can use that rather than the food coloring formula described in the recipe. Just measure 1 tablespoon of caramel color into the dough mixture where the recipe uses food coloring and water. ** This dark, sweet bread, served with soft whipped butter. How does the bread get so dark? While you may notice the recipe includes instant coffee and cocoa, these ingredients will not give it it's deep dark chocolate brown color - not even close. Usually breads that are this dark -- such as pumpernickel or dark bran muffins -- contain caramel color, an ingredient often used in the industry to darken foods. Since your local supermarket will not likely have this mostly commercial product, we will make the caramel color from a mixture of three food colorings -- red, yellow and blue. Just be sure to get the food coloring in the little droppers so that you can count the drops as you measure. That's very important to getting the color just right. You may also opt to keep the color out. The bread will certainly taste the same, but will look nothing like the real deal. I suggest using a bread machine for the mixing and kneading, if you have one.
